---
title: "Fly Tipping"
date: "2020-03-04"
categories: 
  - "village-pump"
---

Council’s successful prosecution for fly tipping A man has been ordered to pay £2900 in compensation and legal costs after being found guilty of committing a waste offence at Norwich Magistrates Court. In lieu of a fine, he must pay £1600 to a farming company affected by the incident and £1300 in costs for North Norfolk District Council’s, prosecuting, legal and investigative costs. The case involved a large fly tip of household and DIY waste from the Norwich area, onto farmland outside Fakenham. He admitted to knowingly causing or permitting the fly tip, by being the registered owner of the vehicle witnessed taking the waste. A landlord of the Norwich address gave a witness statement which included the vehicle, registration, and a description of the person who stopped and offered to take the waste from the site for a fee. Please be aware of this extract from The Borough Council’s website Fly-tipping (illegal dumping) We clear fly-tipping from the highway and council owned land What is fly tipping? Fly-tipping is illegally dumped rubbish. We will clean up and investigate fly-tipping, including dumped: • household rubbish • garden waste • mattresses • construction materials • electrical items We will clear fly-tipping from council owned land and verges. We won't clear fly-tipping from private land. This is the responsibility of the land owner to clear and dispose of responsibly. How you can help It’s important that you tell us if you saw who dumped the rubbish. Or if you have any other information that may help us (for example, details of any vehicles involved). The more information we have, the more likely we are to find the culprit. If you find evidence, please leave this at the site. But if you can, take photos. It helps to have a wide shot of the fly tip in it's original place, and close up shots of the evidence. Please upload these on the form below when making your report. After your report, we may contact you for further information, if you're happy for us to do so. Check for an incident – go online! www.west-norfolk.gov.uk/homepage/312/fly-tipping\_illegal\_dumping Before you report fly-tipping, please check the recent fly-tipping reports we’ve received. The blocks coloured red are live incidents that we’re currently dealing with. Please select a red block to view information about what was dumped, and when. If the fly-tipping you’ve spotted matches the description, or is on the same road, you don’t need to report this; we’re already aware. The orange and green blocks are as follows: • Orange – we’re aware of the fly-tipping, but we can’t clear it as it’s on private land • Green – we’ve visited the location of the fly-tipping, but we couldn’t find anything Update an incident If you have additional information on any of our current incidents, please let us know. It may help our investigations. To do this, please select ‘update this incident’ from within the relevant coloured block on the map.

Tom Ryves BCKL&WN
