---
title: "Stoke Ferry parish Council minutes"
date: "2008-09-01"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "wretton"
---

Minutes of the July meeting of the SFPC

DRAFT

Minutes of Stoke Ferry Parish Council Meeting held in the Community Centre

At 7.30pm on Wednesday 23 July 2008

Those Attending: Cllr M Ferrie (Chairman), Cllr Mrs T Mann (Vice-Chair), Cllr D Summers, Cllr Mrs S Lansdell-Williams, Cllr M Precey, Cllr Mrs M Leamon, Councillor J Nicholas-Letch, Councillor M Mycock, Borough Councillor C Sampson, and Mrs C Hardy (Clerk), 8 Members of the public. Also in attendance PCSO Sara Green and PCSO Tracey Millburn.

Apologies: Apologies were received from Cllr Mrs Mendoza, County Councillor T White.

Minutes of Meetings 18 June and 2 July: Cllr Nicholas-Letch asked that the last sentence of item (f) in the Minutes of 2 July be deleted. Following this deletion being made Cllr M Precey proposed that the Minutes be accepted seconded by Cllr Mrs T Mann.

The Chairman welcomed the PCSO's to the meeting, they reported only 3 calls in respect of nuisance and 3 for criminal damage in the village. Cllr Mycock again raised the problem of vehicles parking facing the wrong way also parking across footpaths throughout the village, particularly Bridge Road through to the pub in Lynn Road. It was suggested that the Clerk write to the Road Police in Swaffham pointing out this problem. In the case of cars parking on footpaths preventing pedestrians, buggies and wheelchairs to pass safely without stepping into the road, registration numbers should be reported to the police on the 0845 456 4567 number. Another problem being encountered is adults and children cycling on footpaths, this seems to be mainly in Wretton Road, this is illegal the advice given was to speak to the school with regard to children.

Matters Arising:

a) Buckenham Drive - the question of dropped kerbs/parking in the hammerhead has been passed to Freebridge Housing Association as the area in question comes under their jurisdiction. Borough Councillor Sampson will attempt to speak to the Freebridge representative to find out what the situation is at present. The problem with standing rainwater on the newly surfaced road had still not been remedied, Highways still dealing with the matter.

b) Clothing Bank at School - the Clerk had received a letter from the Chair of Governors at the school stating that they do not wish to have a clothing bank on their premises. It was therefore put to the meeting "do the parish need a clothing bank in the village", Cllr Mycock proposed there should not be one, seconded by Cllr Nicholas-Letch.

c) Care Home - it was reported that apparently the Anti Social Behaviour Co-ordinator at the Borough Council has been off sick for some weeks and likely to be so for some time to come. Borough Cllr Sampson is attempting to find out what the situation is relating to the Protocol Document, but thought it was awaiting the signature of Hertscare (Continuum Group), he will continue to chase up. The Clerk was asked to make contact with NCAP&TC for advice.

d) Pot Holes Lynn Road - Cllr Precey reported that these have all now been filled.

e) CCTV Camera - Cllr Nicholas-Letch advised the meeting that we should have a policy document stating how to receive data, process it and distribute it, he would prepare a document for consideration at the next meeting. Cllr Mann stated the camera was only there to prevent vandalism. Cllr Precey proposed pulling away from the camera altogether, no one agreed with this. It was therefore unopposed that Cllr Nicholas-Letch prepare a policy document.

f) Wretton Road - Nothing further heard from the Borough Council in relation to non-display of new numbers. It was reported that residents not only in Wretton Road but other parts of the village are having problems with various organisations relating to property names not being recognised. The Clerk to write to Royal Mail asking advice on this problem.

Cllr Mycock asked if the meeting could be speeded up at it was 8.30pm and we are still only part way through matters. The Chairman pointed out that matters must be discussed and agreed as set out on the agenda.

g) Parking opposite Bus Shelter - even though a sign has now been placed asking drivers of vehicles not to park across the dropped kerb, some cars are still doing so. The Clerk to put a note through the door.

h) Footpath alongside Playing Fields - Cllr Precey has investigated the overgrown shrubs - the Clerk to write to the occupier of the property asking for them to be cut back.

i) Loose Kerb junction Buckenham Drive/Wretton Road - this was apparently attended to but become loose again possibly caused by lorries driving over the footpath.

j) Litter Bins - a meeting is to be held with the Borough Council representative on Friday 25 July.

k) Parish Involvement in the Local Development Framework - the Clerk had received a letter from the Principal Planner apologising that attendees had not felt the meeting had been constructive asking the PC to make contact if they had any queries or wished to discuss this further.

l) Street Lights - MHB would survey the number of lamp posts and lights, for insurance purposes, when next in village and report back

m) Wells Homes - Cllr Mrs Mann pointed out she did not feel it necessary for a PC representative to attend future meetings of the Village Hall Committee and Wells Homes, any points relating to planning will be known when the relevant application is received. It was unanimously agreed that no representative should attend meetings.

n) Anglian Water - the bad smell in Oak Road and Border Road was reported to them, they are to investigate and report back, no feedback as yet.

o) Allotments - No response had been received from the Borough Council in respect of where nearest allotments to the village would be. Cllr Precey asked if it would be worthwhile applying for a Lottery Grant to purchase some land for use as allotments. It was agreed that initial investigations should be made as to how many requests have been made, the sizes allotments should be, also any suitable land available.

p) Trim Trail in Playing Fields - this is insured by the Playing Field Committee and should be deleted from the PC Policy.

q) CAG Surgeries - due to staff shortages this is being put on hold for the time being, there is a possibility of a PCSO being with the Mobile Police Office.

r) Buckenham Drive - motor bikes no further information to be chased up with police.

s) The Cemetery - Cllr Nicholas-Letch is in the process of doing a survey of graves and should be in a position to report to the next meeting.

t) Footpath Buckenham Drive to Lynn Road - the tarmac is not the responsibility of Highways. The overgrown weeds to be reported to Borough.

u) Speeding vehicles in Buckenham Drive - Highways do not have any calming measures they could put in place to prevent this.

CCTV Camera:

This matter was dealt with under Matters Arising

Village Liaison Committee:

Cllr Mrs Mann gave a brief update of the recent meeting. There maybe the possibility of moving the monitor to somewhere near the village shop. The Monopolies Commission are still investigating the new buyers of Grampians, until this completed the sale will not be finalised.

Local Government Review:

Cllr Mrs Mann gave a brief outline of the proposals put forward by the Boundary Committee which are a single unitary Norfolk authority including Lowestoft, the wedge consisting of Norwich, Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft, and the doughnut a Norwich Unitary Authority. There is a further meeting on 4 August by the Boundaries Committee.

Planning:

Application

Re-instatement of dormer windows at Park House High Street

Approved by Parish

Change of use from C2 to C3 at Jamadani, 3 Greatmans Way

Approved by the Borough

Construction of dwelling at land Adjacent to The Hunny Pot Furlong Road

Accounts for Approval

Direct Debit payment to e-on Energy £39.40 - Lighting - June

MHB Services - £65.78 - Lighting Maintenance July/August

BCKLWN - £32.69 - Collection of dog waste from The Common

James Bradfield School - £37.89 - Hire of Hall - June/July

Mrs C Hardy - £511.00 - Salary for June and July 2008

Mrs C Hardy - £51.09 - Expenses for June and July 2008

Statement of Account as at 7 July 2008 - Balance Brought Forward - £9887.48, less Payments to date £3798.30 Balance in Bank £6406.37. Un-presented cheques £317.19.

Cllr Mrs Leamon proposed approval for payment seconded by Cllr Precey

Correspondence:

Mr John Cross acknowledging with thanks cheque

Residents in Oak Road reporting car permanently parked in turning bay preventing large vehicles from turning - the Clerk to ask police what are the rules relating to this

BCKLWN, District Emergency Planning Manager - regarding best practice in terms of planning for emergency situations. The Clerk to write asking what is plan for Stoke Ferry

9.00pm Cllr M Mycock left the meeting

Councillors Other Business:

No other business

Public Other Business

Turning Points in Oak Road./Border Road - The Clerk to make enquiries with Traffic Police.

Compliments were made to the Chairman for the efficient way meetings are chaired. Also the attendance of our Borough Councillor Colin Sampson.

There being no further business the meeting closed at 9.10pm

Next Meeting

The next meeting will be on Wednesday 3 September 2008 commencing at 7.30pm.

Chairman:......................................... Date...........................................

Parish Clerk
