---
title: "Wretton PC Minutes"
date: "2009-02-01"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "wretton"
---

MINUTES OF WRETTON PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD AT THE CHURCH TUESDAY 11TH NOVEMBER 2008

Present: Cllr D Llewellyn - Chairman, Cllr M Peake, Cllr A Box, Cllr L Peake, Cllr B Glover, Borough Councillor Mr. C Sampson. 4 members of the public

1\. Apologies for Absence accepted from:

Cllr S Briston, County Councillor Mr. T White.

2\. No Declarations of Interest made.

3\. Approval of Minutes:

With the addition of Mr. A Box to the list of apologies, the minutes of the 09/09/08 were confirmed as a true record of the meeting.

4\. Matters Arising:

 Cllr M Peake has replaced the litter bin in the play area. The old bin was beyond repair.

 Borough Cllr. C Sampson offered to pursue the matter of water accumulation at Lime House Drove.

5\. Chairman's Report:

 Electricity poles have been replaced in the village and in the process the street light on the pole next to the pond on the Green has been destroyed. This needs to be investigated.

Clerk's Report:

\* A letter has been received from Cllr. Briston relating to several highway matters around the parish. His concerns have been passed to the Highway Technician and the Safer Neighbourhood Team. Schemes are in place for maintenance work on the footpath which leads to the school and for drainage near Lime House Drove. However, there is no date when either work may be undertaken and Cllr. Sampson was asked if he could assist pushing these matters forward.

\* The Parish Council has registered to adopt the village phone box.

\* There is to be a Safer Neighbourhood Team Community Action Group meeting held at West Winch Social Club on Tuesday November 25th @ 7pm.

6\. Accounts were presented and accepted for payment.

Cheques for approval of payment

Clerk's wages/expenses (Sept./Oct. inc. poppy wreath) £130.40

MHB Services x2 £32.50

Finance - @ October 31st 2008

Community Account 2757.59

Business Premium Account 1683.15

Business Reserve Account 817.19

Business Premium Reserve Account 12177.43

6.1 Discussion took place regarding the 2009 precept request. As the Council is likely to underspend on budget this financial year and as reserves remain relatively high it was agreed the precept would not be increased for 2009. The precept request for 2009 will therefore remain at £3576.

6.2 As the litter bin in the play area has been replaced it is not necessary to purchase a new one. However, trade waste sacks will be bought from the Borough Council at a cost of £50 for 25 (plus delivery of £4.40).

7\. Correspondence:

1\. Policing Plan 2008/11

2\. Borough Council Standards Committee - Appointment of Members and Panel hearing agenda 7/11/08

3\. BCKLWN Council meeting agenda 25/09/08

4\. Communities in control: Real people, real power: Codes of conduct for local authority member sand employees - A consultation

5\. Norfolk LINk

6\. Initial training for Clerks and Councillors

7\. Funding Opportunities Sept/Oct.

8\. The making and enforcement of byelaws - A consultation

9\. Mayor's Awards for Design in the Environment

10\. Parish Training and Information Thursday 29th Jan. 2009 Bar Room Downham Market 10am - 3.30pm

11\. Your Council

8\. Planning:

No planning applications received.

9\. Co-option of new Councillor:

Two volunteers had come forward to join the Council thus a vote was taken. Mrs Margaret Mansell was duly co-opted to fill the one vacancy.

10\. The Green:

A complaint has been received that a go-cart is being driven on The Green. It is not legal for a motorised vehicle to be driven on a recreational area and it was decided a letter should be sent to the person concerned. The Parish Council does have a duty of care for users of the Green and such practise would be considered a hazard.

It was agreed two signs should be purchased stating "No unauthorised vehicles are permitted on the Green". If approached the Parish Council would consider a special dispensation for vehicles attending public events and for parking for funerals. The Clerk will investigate prices for signs and obtain agreement from the Chair and Vice-Chair before purchase.

It was also decided a letter should be sent to the owner of a lorry often parked on the Green requesting this practise should cease.

11\. Sewerage System Update:

The Chairman reported that an incident had occurred since the last meeting and effluent had entered the dyke at Chequers Lane due to a blockage in the system. Anglia Water was slow to attend and the Environment Agency failed to act at all. The Parish Council will both parties and register strong dissatisfaction with their lack of adequate response.

Mr. A Piper, Borough Council Environmental Health Officer, has visited Mr. A Jacobs regarding his continued complaints with the sewerage system. Mr. Jacobs has compiled a report on the Wretton sewerage system, copies of which were passed to Councillors present.

Cllr. Sampson confirmed he was aware of the problems in Wretton and that Anglia Water does have such problems throughout the Borough.

Mr. and Mrs Jacobs left the meeting @ 8.20pm.

The Chairman has spoken to the Borough Council Environmental Health Team regarding the sewerage on numerous occasions and no odour has been reported since September. Anglia Water is monitoring any smell and are investigating possible illegal discharge into the sewer.

12\. Uses for All Saints Church:

Suggestions for use of the church have been for a youth club, a mother & toddlers group, film shows, monthly bingo and quiz nights.

It was suggested needs should be identified and liaison should take place between the Church, Wretton Historical Organisation and the community generally.

The Parish Council could perhaps help fund events and possibly use some capital money to assist plumbing installation in the Church. Notices will be placed and a meeting could be called for further discussion.

13\. Other Reports/items for the next agenda - for information only:

13.1 There is graffiti on the play area shelter.

13.2 Two trees at the end of the graveyard are blocking vision of the clock.

13.3 It was suggested the face of the clock should be repainted. This will bew an agenda item for the January meeting.

13.4 Freebridge could be contacted to request removal of the All Saints Place street name plate from the side of the house in Church Road.

OPEN SESSION

\* The notice board by the phone box needs replacing. This will be an agenda item for the January meeting.

\* The seat in the play area needs repairing.

Parish Clerk
