---
title: "Wretton Parish Council March"
date: "2017-07-12"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "wretton"
---

MINUTES OF WRETTON PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD AT THE CHURCH MONDAY MARCH 6TH 2017 Present– Cllr David Llewellyn - Chairman, Cllr Martin Cann, Cllr Mick Peake, Cllr Mandy Peake, Cllr John Wyett, Cllr Bill Whitmore. Norfolk County Councillor Martin Storey 3 members of the public 1. Apologies for Absence received; Cllr Ian Mack Borough Councillor Colin Sampson 2. No Declarations of Interest made 3. The Minutes of the meetings held on 23.01.17 were agreed as a true record. 4. Matters Arising from previous meetings  SAM2 signs The SAM2 sign purchased with 50% funding from Norfolk County Council (NCC) Parish Partnership Scheme is to be positioned as soon as possible.  HGV signs HGV signs for Wretton Row have been paid for and are to be erected by NCC.  Footpath RB7 is programmed to be cut by NCC in the new financial year.  A firm proposal is needed regarding what should be done with the trees around the ‘pond’ area on Wretton Green. Costs to remove the trees will be researched and this matter will be agenda item for the Annual Parish Meeting to be held on May 8th.  It was noted the area adjacent to Field Lane has been made secure to keep dogs from running loose onto the lane.  NCC Highways have been made aware of pot holes reported at the last Parish Council.  5. 5.1 Chairman’s Report Cllr Wyett was thanked for the work he has undertaken to repair the fencing and bins at the Play Area. 5.2 Clerk’s Report An application has been made to the National Association of Local Councils Transparency Code. All that needs to be undertaken regarding Pension Auto Enrolment is completed to date. 5.3 Risk Assessment It was noted the work identified on the Annual Play Equipment Report has been undertaken. 6. Accounts were presented and accepted for payment. Cheques for approval of payment 2218/05/2017 SJ Scarrott salary £118.44 K & M Lighting £35.04 HMRC PAYE £44.40 Financial position @ 28.02.17 Community Account Balance £4496.55 Business Saver Account £3451.53 7. Correspondence Correspondence received is passed to Councillors electronically. A request has been received for a picnic to be held on Wretton Green in August. The Parish Council is supportive of this. 8. No planning applications received for consideration 9. Defibrillator for the phone box Funding for a defibrillator would be upwards of £1400 plus cost of installation. The Parish Council has not budgeted for this possible project and thus money would need to be found through fund raising. This project could be discussed at the Annual Parish Meeting and it was suggested the meeting should be publicised to encourage attendance. A leaflet drop will be undertaken in the parish before the meeting on May 8th @ 7pm (to be followed by the Annual Parish Council Meeting at 7.30pm). It is planned the phone box will be re-painted once the weather is suitable. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION  It was noted flooding is occurring in places along the road where surface run off has nowhere to drain.  A brief outline of what the Jane Forby Charity does was given by the Chairman of the Trustees of the Charity.  It was confirmed the Parish Council has donated £5000 to the Church towards the improvements to the access of the Churchyard. It was noted that some find it difficult to traverse the new gravel path leading up to the Church.
