---
title: "Boughton News July"
date: "2017-07-12"
categories: 
  - "boughton"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

Boughton CC: Season 2017 Update Exciting things have been happening down at Boughton Cricket Club this season! Fresh from our spectacular fundraising efforts to construct our new pavilion, we are now officially playing in the Norfolk Cricket League. We now have teams playing three formats: a 1st XI playing League matches most Saturdays, a Sunday XI playing selected friendly fixtures, and a midweek T20 side playing our extremely popular 20 over friendlies for a hit and a giggle. Our big move this season into League Cricket saw us enter the Norfolk Division 4 West, after a very successful recruitment drive in the winter attracted some talented new players into the club. The new 1st XI, captained by Ash Legge, is off to a flyer and has already recorded 3 wins from the first 6 games. We are now ominously poised mid-table, ready to make our play for league leadership in the second half of the season! The Sunday XI plays a more ‘relaxed’ brand of cricket on, you guessed it… Sundays, allowing youngsters to combine with our seasoned veterans to enjoy and develop their cricket. Fixtures include local teams such as Castle Rising and Gooderstone, with a prestige fixture against the dons of Jesus College, Cambridge! Amongst our biggest successes have been our midweek T20 games, playing fixtures against sides as exotic as Downham Curry Club, The President’s XI (what, The Donald?), Albanwise and Fawcett Fen Farmers. Young and oldsters alike love this exciting fast-moving format played out on a summer’s evening - followed by cheeky beers all round (for the adults) while the sun sets. Of course, none of this could happen without the efforts of key people behind the scenes. The players owe a lot to the efforts of David Cooper and Steve Short for turning what was a ploughed field a few years ago into a stunning cricket ground - our “Theatre of Dreams” as we like to call it! Also our Club Patrons Rosemary, and the late Alan Wilkinson, without whose generosity and support we would not have been able to build the club, its fine new pavilion and our beautiful ground. Lastly, our illustrious committee that keeps the club rolling, raises the vital funding, decorates the new pavilion and puts lovely teas on the table at all our matches. Look out for our cricket ‘event’ fundraiser coming later in the season - you won’t want to miss it! Boughton CC is keen to attract new players, young and old, and spectators too! Our ground can be found halfway down the Wretton Road, through the gate on the left. We also have regular Net practice most Tuesday evenings from 6pm. If you would like to play, or just start with some practice, please contact Club Chairman Steve Short on 07768 807534 or email us at info@boughtoncricketclub.co.uk - we would love to have you on the team!
