---
title: "West Dereham Parish Council - Extraordinary Meeting June"
date: "2018-07-29"
categories: 
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "west-dereham"
---

MINUTES OF THE WEST DEREHAM EXTRAORDINARY PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD AT WEST DEREHAM VILLAGE HALL AT 4.30 pm ON FRIDAY 29 JUNE 2018 PRESENT (Five Councillors):- Pam Bullas (PB), Claire Cann (CC) - Chair, Lorraine Hunt (LH), Pam Walker (PW) and Claire Williams (CW). In attendance: Peter King, Parish Clerk. No members of the public were present. The Chairman welcomed everyone present to the Parish Council Meeting. 1. Apologies for absence Councillor Paula Kellingray and Councillor Tom Foy. 2. Declaration of Interest on agenda items No declarations were made. 3. Use of social media, audio recording of meeting and invitation for public contributions CC asked “Will anyone present be filming, recording, blogging, or tweeting during this meeting?” There was no response from those present. 4 Finance 4.1 Internal Auditors 2017/18 Report and Accounting Statements 2017/18 for West Dereham Parish Council - The Parish Clerk confirmed that the Internal Audit Report covered the period 1st April 2017 until 31st March 2018 and included the processing of a number of accounts reports, documents, statements and review of the Parish website.. 4.2 CC commented that under the report’s section entitled ‘Budgetary Controls’ (page 3), that the Internal Auditor had noted that only the ‘year to date’ figures had been noted but that the actual budget 2018/19 had been agreed. CC requested that both 2017/18 and 2018/19 are added to the Parish website. 4.3 CC commented that under the report’s section entitled Assets Controls (page 4), that the Internal Auditor had noted that the variation between the Assets Register total value and the Insurance cover shown in the Policy Schedule. CC requested that the Parish Clerk should contact the insurance company and increase the Total Risk Insured. 4.4 CC commented that under the report’s section entitled ‘Turnover under £25,000’, payments over £100 detailed on the website (page 5), that the Internal Auditor had noted that the schedule had not been detailed or shown on the parish website. CC requested that the Parish Clerk review the position and add to the Parish website. 4.5 CC commented that under the report’s section entitled ‘Electors’ rights advertised’ (page 5), that the Internal Auditor had noted that the document had not been added to the Parish website. CC asked the Parish Clerk to add the appropriate document to the Parish website. 4.6 CC commented that under the report’s section entitled ‘Councillors’ responsibilities detailed on website’ (page 5), that the Internal Auditor had noted that that the relevant information is not up to date. CC asked the Parish Clerk to confirm with the Internal auditor the details of the appropriate document and to update the Parish website, accordingly. 4.7 CC commented that under the report’s section entitled ‘Land and building assets details on website (page 5), that the Internal Auditor had noted that the details were not up to date. CC requested that the Parish Clerk clarify the position with the Internal Auditor. 4.8 CC commented that under the report’s section entitled ‘Has a representative of the Parish Council been trained in GDPR implications? And does the Parish Council adhere to GDPR regulations?’(page 5), that the Internal Auditor had noted that there was not a record of training. The Councillors noted that the Parish Clerk had attended a GDPR training session organised by the Norfolk Association of Local Councils and that GDPR had been a regular agenda item at several Parish Council meetings. The Parish Clerk was asked 2 to draw up an appropriate schedule of training sessions and seminars attended by him and Parish Councillors. 4.9 The Parish Clerk advised that on the approval of the Parish Council, the accounts will be open to scrutiny by the members of the public who would be able to inspect the accounts held by the Parish Clerk at his home between the period of 2nd July and 10th August 2018. The Parish Clerk noted that his contact details are available on the document ‘Electors’ rights advertised’ to be added to the Parish website, advertised in the monthly Village Magazine and displayed on the two Parish Noticeboards for the six week period. 4.10 The Parish Clerk noted that it was his duty to ask the Parish Councillors present that in the knowledge that the Accounts having been approved by the Internal Auditor, eight questions listed in the Annual Return regarding control processors to fulfil this stage of the Audit process, listed under Section1 - Annual Governance Statement 2017/18 and to confirm by the Councillors their understanding to the best of their knowledge and belief of the controls put in place. The Parish Clerk then read out the statements that the Councillors agreed by each saying “Yes” to all questions. The Parish Clerk added these affirmations to the Return and it was duly signed by the Parish Clerk and Chair of the Council. 4.11 The Parish Clerk explained to the Meeting that the Annual return was now required to be sent for External Audit that would take several weeks. 5. To comment on planning applications currently received 5.1 18/01109/CM - Variation of conditions 1, 13 and 24 of planning permission C/2/2015/2034: To enable operations to continue until 31 December 2022 in accordance with amended phased restoration scheme Crimplesham Quarry 5.2 18/01110/CM Variation of conditions 1, 7 and 12 of planning permission C/2/2015/2035: To enable operations to continue until 31 December 2022 in accordance with an amended restoration scheme Crimplesham Quarry 5.3 18/01130/CM - Variation of conditions 1, 9 and 13 of planning permission C/2/2015/2036 to enable operations to continue until 31 December 2022 Crimplesham Quarry 5.4 The Parish Clerk commented that he had reviewed a number of documents listed on the Norfolk County Council Planning Department (NCCPD) website dating back to the last series of applications agreed in 2015 for planning extensions and that these three applications were linked to the application reviewed at the Parish Council meeting held on 7th June 2018. The Parish Clerk read out a letter sent from the Parish Council in 2015 to NCCPD. 5.5 CC commented concerns at the applicants’ inability to plan ahead. The Councillors agreed that they held no objections to the applications but expressed concern that the applicants should be better informed regarding the position of the building industry, take a more responsible consideration of local communities and should be able to take an advanced clear view of how long they require the quarry to remain open instead of making continued retrospective extension applications. The Parish Clerk was asked to convey this view to NCCPD. 6. Date of next Parish Council Meeting To note that the next Parish Meeting will be held on Thursday 5th July 2018 at 7.30pm in the West Dereham Village Hall. The meeting will be preceded with Open Surgery at 7.00pm. The meeting closed at 5.05pm Next meeting is the Parish Council Meeting on Thursday 5th July 2018 at 7.30pm with Open Surgery from 7.00pm. Clerk: Peter King - Email: clerk@westderehamparishcouncil.uk Telephone: 01366 502110 Chairman’s signature …………………………………… Date ………………………
