---
title: "Stoke Ferry Parish Council Meeting Minutes - August"
date: "2020-09-30"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

Page 1 of 6 STOKE FERRY PARISH COUNCIL Draft (until approved at the next meeting) Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting held on Wednesday 12 August 2020 at 7.00 pm, Virtually online via Zoom Present: Cllr Sue Lintern (Chair) Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey (Vice-Chair) (From Items 128/20-145/20) Cllr Stuart Collins Cllr Andrew Hayward Cllr Mandy Leamon Cllr Trudy Mann Cllr Gail Reeve (From Items 128/20-145/20) Cllr Donna Stocking Cllr Janet Taylor (From Items 132/20 – 126/20) Helen Richardson (Parish Clerk and Financial Responsible Person) Also, in Attendance Public – 4 Cllr Colin Sampson, Borough Council of Kings Lynn and West Norfolk Cllr Martin Storey, Norfolk County Council Two Representatives from the Bluebell Pub Campaign 128/20 Openness and Transparency Notice The Chair read the notice. 129/20 To Record Those Councillors Present who do not have a Video Link There were none. 130/20 To Receive and Consider Acceptance for Apologies of Absence There were no apologies. 131/20 To Receive Declarations of Interest from Members Cllr Trudy Mann and Cllr Janet Taylor declared an interest regarding the Bluebell public house at item 134/20. 132/20 To Approve the Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting held on 1 July 2020 There were no amendments. RESOLVED: • That the minutes of the Ordinary meeting held on 1 July 2020 be approved as a correct record. (Cllr Gail Reeve proposed, Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey seconded, eight were in favour and one abstained as they had not been present at the meeting). 133/20 To Note Matters Arising from the Minutes of the Last Meeting. Matters arising and the Clerk’s report was noted as follows: Greatmans Way - A new bracket needed to be fitted to a streetlight on a new pole installed by UK Power Networks in the case of Health and Safety. The Clerk confirmed £65 plus VAT for a new bracket to be ordered with the contractor early July. This work is now complete. Buckenham Drive Land Transfer – No update from the Borough Council, the Clerk emailed them on 19th July and have received no response and will continue to chase in August. Indigo Road Overgrown Bushes – Work to the area was undertaken by the developer. Old Railway Development – The Clerk had contacted the developer for an update on the site and awaited a response. Page 2 of 6 Cemetery – The Handyman filled holes in the cemetery around the edge in July, but they had appeared again, and he will continue to fill and check when grass cutting is taking place. Sifting Panel (Planning) – The Clerk forwarded information to Cllr Colin Sampson to share at the Borough Council regarding the Stoke Ferry Parish Council’s views on the Sifting Panel. A response had been received during the week from Cllr Moriarty who advised that the Chair of the Planning Committee would be contacting Parish Council’s in response, and training regarding material planning objections was due to be offered. Cllr Martin Storey shared that all major applications come to the full Planning Committee, and a few years ago officers were given more powers to make decisions on planning to be more efficient with smaller applications and it was still possible to call in applications where needed. He shared that Cllr Chris Crofts was the Chair of the Planning Committee. Cllr Colin Sampson shared that he still had issue with the process whereby he is expected to call in any planning applications from the Parish Council’s he represents, and suggested that the Parish Council may wish to still pursue this aspect for a response. He understood that a response was being prepared from the Borough Council to Parish Councils, but it was unclear whether the call-in procedure was to be addressed, he added that the timescale of 21 days made it possible that call-ins were not received in time in the case of annual leave. The Parish Council noted that a response would be received from the Borough Council in due course. Planning Application (Received Between Meetings – No Objection) Demolition of front porch and erection of replacement. Demolition of single storey rear building and erection of two storey rear extension at The Apiary Furlong Road Stoke Ferry King's Lynn Norfolk PE33 9SU - No objection returned 010720. Planning Application Decisions Received for Information 20/00118/TREECA Stoke Ferry T1 Silver Birch - Remove within Conservation Area Highfields Boughton Road Stoke Ferry PE33 9ST. 20/00103/TREECA Stoke Ferry The Moorings Stoke Ferry King's Lynn Norfolk PE33 9UE - Works to trees in a conservation area. Tree Application - No objection 15 July 2020 Delegated Decision 20/00118/TREECA Stoke Ferry Highfields Boughton Road Stoke Ferry King's Lynn Norfolk PE33 9ST - T1 Silver Birch - Remove within Conservation Area Tree Application - No objection 15 July 2020 Delegated Decision 20/00135/TREECA Stoke Ferry T1 Cherry tree - Fell T2 Prunus - Prune lift canopy thin crown and remove top leaders Trafalgar House Bridge Road Stoke Ferry PE33 9TB Bridge Road – The Chair confirmed that the pathway had been repaired by Highways. 134/20 To Receive an Update Regarding the Bluebell Pub Campaign Two representatives of the Bluebell Campaign Group shared that a committee had been formed in the village for the project with members having skills in such areas as catering, legal and company secretarial. The lockdown had knocked the Committee back somewhat, but they had endeavoured to kept activities going with work on draft share offers and business plans. They were looking to get tax relief incentives for the scheme, but this information was pending. There had been a couple of events held online, and for the Bank Holiday on Monday 31st August there would be an event both online and in a real world formality which will include a Page 3 of 6 tea garden, beer tasting, lockdown hero celebrations, a treasure hunt and a raffle. It was planned to be advertised on the Bluebell Campaign Website, Facebook and also in the EDP and Radio Norfolk. The Committee were looking to deliver on the brief from the village consultation which highlighted the need for an inclusive pub to drink and eat in, but also a dynamic space where such provision could be made for a Dementia café or weekly low cost meals. It may be possible to offer meeting rooms for business over time. The Plunkett Foundation had sent an email earlier in the day to the Committee, which advised they were now re-opening their fund again, and a grant of £50k for capital investment potentially could be available to the project. They now needed to make their position as strong as possible and submit to this fund by the end of August. The representative discussed purchase prices with the Parish Council and possible costs to refurbish the building inside and out, it was hoped that local tradesmen and volunteers could offer their services also. The Committee needed to further understand if the community were willing to help to fund the project and the extent of available anchor investments that could help move it along further and provide confidence to other investors. He wished to draw the Parish Council’s attention to an alternative approach whereby a Public Works Loan could be applied for by the Parish Council to purchase the property for use by the community. Money’s raised in addition to this would cover refurbishment. He explained that the Public Works Loan would be paid back through the Stoke Ferry Precept, but it was likely that the pub when up and running would be able to meet the ongoing cost that this presented through its operation. The representative from the Bluebell Campaign Group shared that the project aimed to be transparent and consultative with the community from the start, as a lot of the community funding would come from within as owners. He shared that the Asset of Community Value application which had been unsuccessful was now in the past as nothing further could be achieved, and the Committee were now moving forward and pursuing other avenues. Following a query, the representative shared that anyone outside the community may purchase a share, and even those abroad may wish to do so as well as crowd funding opportunities. In answer to queries from the Chair the representative explained that the pub would ultimately be in the Parish Council’s ownership and keeper of the title deeds and a referendum would be held as soon as the Parish Council agreed to undertake it in terms of asking the community whether they wished to proceed with an application for a Public Works Loan. The Chair thanked the representatives for the update, and shared that the Parish Council would be keen to see how the August bank holiday weekend event went. The Chair shared that the Bluebell Pub and Public Works Loan would be added to the September agenda to discuss any other way that it may be able to provide assistance to the project. The representative advised that by that time they would hopefully have a further update in relation to the Plunkett Foundation funding as well as a progress update on the owner’s planning appeal. The two Bluebell Pub Campaign representatives left the meeting at this point. 135/20 To Receive a Neighbourhood Planning Working Group Update and Approval of Any Project Costs The Chair shared that two monthly updates had been circulated and placed on the website. Cllr Andrew Hayward highlighted the following areas: • Projects that had to stop due to the early onset of the Covid-19 outbreak were now re-starting again from July onwards. • The Neighbourhood Plan Working Group were planning to send a survey around all the village, and there maybe a possible link with the Bluebell project. • A character assessment was being undertaken by members of the working group across the village and people may notice them out and about. It is around two thirds of the way complete and then the draft document will start to be written. Page 4 of 6 • A grant regarding housing needs analysis through Locality was confirmed and conducted through their advisors at AECOM. As part of the housing needs analysis work on housing codes may be relevant to Stoke Ferry but a decision would be made to whether this was a requirement nearer the time. The Chair shared that costs of survey leaflets and posters for approval was required at £116. This was in place of a consultation day that was not possible due to Covid-19. RESOLVED: That Payment of £116.00 (no VAT) for survey leaflets and posters for the Neighbourhood Plan project be approved. (Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey proposed, Cllr Andrew Hayward seconded, all were in favour). 136/20 To Receive and Approve Any Costs Arising from a Horticultural Update A member of public who takes care of the gardens area near The Hill reported they had been weeding and maintaining the area with Cllr Janet Taylor. There had been a request from the volunteers to purchase plants for the two tub planters at the memorial and purchase sand and cement to repoint the paving slabs, totalling £50. The Chair wished to thank the member of public and Cllr Janet Taylor for carrying out the work. The sand and cement were now to be donated and it was agreed to advertise a request for any plant donations which were white, red or blue. Cllr Donna Stocking agreed to add a request to the Stoke Ferry Market place Facebook page and the Clerk agreed to add to the website. It was agreed that any coming forward for donation the member of public would be asked to call on offers and decide whether they were suitable. RESOLVED: That purchase of bedding plants up to £20 be approved but only for spend should there be no appropriate donations of plants in red, white, or blue. (Cllr Sue Lintern proposed, Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey seconded, all were in favour). 137/20 To Discuss 2Agriculture Mill Development Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey shared various queries on his concerns in relation to the mill which included environmental noise, HGV highway damage and dust and air quality monitoring. He raised that the various authority agencies involved needed to work and communicate better together on the issues and integrity of the 2Agriculture business itself. The Chair shared that most of the queries raised needed to be answered by the Mill and the Borough Council. Cllr Martin Storey shared that any queries needed to be directed to the relevant department at Norfolk County Council and he was happy to be copied into Highways issues. Cllr Colin Sampson shared that issues regarding air quality monitoring and environmental noise needed to be directed to the Borough Council. He shared that most of the Borough Council employees had been redeployed into other roles since the Covid-19 outbreak and issues could be resolved but it may take longer at this time. Cllr Colin Sampson shared that questions from Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey could be sent through to him for an update and suggested that any questions the Parish Council had should be posed at the next Liaison meeting. The Chair clarified that the Committee had met two months ago and prior to that 18 months before. They added that the liaison meeting, which was the Mill’s Committee, also had requested attendances from the Borough Council Environment Department, the Environment Agency and the Parish Council. The Borough Council gave an air quality update and Environment Agency update was to do with the permit. The Chair shared that due to a change in Management at the Mill there had not been regular Committee meetings which in the past had been held quarterly. The Chair shared that the questions that Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey had raised should be forwarded to the Clerk to email to the Borough Council and copied to the various agency bodies and Cllr Colin Sampson. Page 5 of 6 138/20 To Provide an Update Bradfield Place Custom Build Site and Consultation by the BCKLWN The Chair shared that she had spoken with a Borough Council representative who advised that they were keen to put forward a site for custom build at Bradfield Place. At the Borough Council there was a register for those who wished to note interest in custom build sites. From the response they receive they will decide whether to do a public and full consultation with Stoke Ferry. There had been some advertising on Facebook in regard to understanding if there were anyone from Stoke Ferry interested themselves in Custom Builds. 139/20 To Discuss and Approve any Action in Relation to the Romer Farms Outbuildings Current Planning Application (Romer Farm, Oxborough Road 20/01057/PACU3) The application had come to light under Permitted Development as an agricultural barn it could go through the system with only a few consultees of which the Parish Council was not part of. The application was to convert the barn to five houses in the block forming the shape of the barn and would have grey cladding on the outside. It was within the conservation area and therefore it should be refused, however once 56 days lapses the developer can go ahead should there be no response from the Borough Council. Cllr Colin Sampson shared that he was surprised to see that this kind of development could be dealt with outside of the usual planning application process and he was unable to call it in. He shared that anyone could put an application forward for consideration and it was up to the Borough Council to check the details and if it were within the conservation area they would notice and refuse. Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey shared at this point that he would declare an interest as a neighbouring property. Cllr Colin Sampson agreed to go back to the Planning Officer and Conservation Officer and share the views of the Parish Council and confirmed that Cllr Richard Blunt and Stuart Ashworth Deputy Head of Planning were already aware. 140/20 To Approve Costs in relation to the Village Gates and Signs Project It was agreed for Councillors to create their own designs to bring back to the meeting in September, and this needed to be circulated within the next two weeks. 141/20 To Discuss Anti-Social Behaviour in Open Spaces It had been noted that there had been several different people camping on the slip way and a large amount of rubbish left behind. There had been camping and campfires on the Common. The Clerk agreed to contact the Environment Agency and Anglian Water to make them aware. The Chair advised that this needed to be monitored. 142/20 To Approve a 12 Month Website Hosting Contract The Chair advised that the contract was circulated prior to the meeting at the same price as last year £144.00. RESOLVED: That a 12 Month Website Hosting Contract be approved at cost of £144.00 including VAT with Bequality Ltd. (Cllr Andrew Hayward proposed, Cllr Sue Lintern seconded, all were in favour). 143/20 To Approve the ‘Register of Decisions Made Online by the Parish Council for Ratification at the Next Full Council Meeting’. a) Additional Neighbourhood Planning Grant of £1k for Extra Consultant Days RESOLVED: That the Register of Decisions Made Online by the Parish Council for ratification in relation to ‘Additional Neighbourhood Planning Grant of £1k for Extra Consultant Days’ be approved. (Cllr Andrew Hayward proposed, second Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey seconded, all were in favour). Page 6 of 6 144/20 To Approve the Payments and Accounts Reconciliation The payments were presented for approval as follows: RESOLVED: That the payments for July as presented be approved. (Cllr Donna proposed, Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey seconded, all were in favour). 145/20 Urgent Matters - Chairman The Chairman shared that the Norfolk County Council Parish Partnership scheme included finger post badges, a village map, and perch seating in the bus stop near the Hill. The finger post badges were round with numbers on to match details on the Definitive Map and the walking booklet and the Chair agreed to get a mock-up for approval at the September next meeting. The Chair shared that the arrows were separate. The Clerk would liaise with Bonnetts on the Perch seating that had been already costed for the purpose of the application and present to the September meeting for approval. Cllr Trudy Mann agreed to circulate a design for the map to agree before it was officially started by the artist, and it was to be a design that could be reprinted over time. It was agreed to also add to the September agenda for further discussion and approval. Cllr Gail Reeve and Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey left the meeting at this point. 146/20 To Receive Urgent items of concern & matters to be included on the next agenda from the Parish Council and note forward items There were none. 147/20 Cllr Colin Sampson (BCKLWN) and Cllr Martin Storey (NCC), if in attendance Cllr Colin Sampson shared that there was still business grant fund available via the Borough Council. He shared that Unitary Council was back on the radar which was about forming one Council from the Borough, District and County Councils. Cllr Martin Storey shared that various updates to the public had been sent through to Parishes since the outbreak for sharing with the public and the Highways authority were slowly getting back to normal operation. The Clerk had been adding information received to the website. 148/20 To Adjourn the meeting to allow for public comments The Chair adjoined the meeting to allow public comments and was reconvened after. 149/20 To Confirm the Date of the Next Ordinary Meeting – Wednesday 2 September 2020 at 7 pm. It was approved. Meeting Closed at 9.30 pm. 12-Aug-20Payments for ApprovalPayeeCheque No.Payment forNetVATTotalcheque cancelled101901written in errorClerk101902Clerks Wages and Expenses -July 20347.280.00347.28HMRC101903Jul-2083.200.0083.20Grounds Maintenance 101904Jul-20240.000.00240.00Handyman101904Bins30.000.0030.00EONDDElectricity for Streetlights - July 202078.003.9081.90EONDDElectricity for Streetlights - August 202080.604.0384.63Playing Field Committee101905S137 payment - annual insurance fee769.930.00769.93SLCC Webinar101906Clerk Training30.006.0036.00Hussey Knights101907Neighbourhood Plan Printing116.000.00116.00Westcotec Ltd101908Streetlight maintenance May - July 202046.329.2755.59Stoke Ferry Parish Council - Unity Trust Bank101909To open account50.000.0050.00Bequality Ltd.101910To open account120.0024.00144.00Total1991.3347.202038.53
