---
title: "MINUTES OF THE WEST DEREHAM PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD AT WEST DEREHAM VILLAGE HALL AT 7.30 pm  ON THURSDAY 04 APRIL 2019"
date: "2019-08-26"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "west-dereham"
---

 

PRESENT (Six Councillors):- Pam Bullas (PB) Claire Cann (CC) - Chair, Tom Foy (TF), Lorraine Hunt, (LH), Paula Kellingray (PK) and Pam Walker (PW) In attendance: Borough/NCC Councillor, Brian Long (BL), Peter King, Parish Clerk, and 10 members of the public.

The Chairman welcomed everyone present to the Parish Council Meeting.

1\. Apologies for absence Parish Councillor Claire Williams and Borough/County Councillor Sandra Squire (SS). The Parish Clerk reported that Councillor Squire had expressed that her best wishes were passed onto the Parish Council and noted that it had been her honour and privilege to be the local Borough Councillor for the past four years. Councillor Squire had added that West Dereham had been a friendly and welcoming Parish Council and noted that whoever is successful at the Borough Elections in May would be lucky to have West Dereham in their ward.

2\. Declaration of Interest on agenda items No declarations were made.

3\. Use of social media, audio recording of meeting and invitation for public contributions

CC asked “Will anyone present be filming, recording, blogging, or tweeting during this meeting?” There was no response from the members of the public present. CC advised members of the public that if they wished to comment on any item, before a decision was made, they should raise their hand and they would be invited to speak.

4 Minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on 7 March 2019

CC confirmed that all Councillors had seen the minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on 7 March 2019. The Councillors agreed that they were content that the minutes should be signed as a true record. CC as Chair of the meeting on the 7 March 2019 signed the minutes.

5\. Matters Arising from the Minutes

5.1 War Memorial, St Andrew’s Churchyard - The Parish Clerk reported that he had received a response from a stonemason who had provided some costs. The Parish Clerk noted that the stonemason was concerned that it would be difficult to obtain a smooth enough face on the reverse side of the memorial to add new raised lettering, however, it would take a day’s work at the cost of £280.00 plus VAT. The stonemason suggested either fitting the existing plaque to the carved out area on the back or having a new plaque with raised lead lettering. The cost to fit the existing plaque would be £87.50 plus VAT and would include drilling holes in their workshop for fitting screws and the repainting of the letters. The cost to create a new plaque with raised lead would cost £420.00 plus VAT. The stonemason added that he believed to change any of the current lettering may spoil the memorial and be difficult to cover up, involving the need for some filling and would advise against changing the lettering. CC questioned whether the local branch of the Royal British Legion might want to contribute to a new plaque. CC requested that the Parish Clerk obtain further information and if possible a sample of the quoted plaque material.

5.2 Overgrown brambles growing adjacent to 10 Ryston Road - The Parish Clerk reported that SS had received confirmation from Southern Grounds Team from Borough Council of King’s Lynn and West Norfolk (BCKLWN) Parks and Open Spaces Department that they had agreed that 10 Ryston Road would remain on their maintenance schedule. 5.3 Village Hall Directional Road Sign - The Parish Clerk reported that he had approached Norfolk County Council - Highways Department (NCC-HD) for further costs and advice for the installation of double-sided signs. NCC-HD had responded that they did not see any problems installing new signs and that a double-sided sign would add in the region of £70 to original cost quoted of £220 - £250. In response to a question raised by LH, PK confirmed that the possible sharing of the costs would be discussed at the next Village Hall Committee meeting. PK, in agreement with a Parishioner noted that the favoured positions for the signs would be at the junction of Bath Road and St Andrew’s Walk and at the junction of Church, Station and Wereham Roads. CC noted that the agreed positions would require permission for siting by NCC-HD.

5.4 Join Keep Britain Tidy’s Great British Spring Clean The Parish Clerk reported that he had received two offers of help from Parishioners to attend the West Dereham litter pick on Sunday 14th April at 2.00pm being organised from the Village Hall. PB offered her apologies, as she was unable to attend.

5.5 Riverside Nursery - The Parish Clerk reported that he had added the contact details of the new nursery manager, Brendan Henry, to the Parish website and they had been included in the last Parish Notice.

5.6 Changes to Mobile Library Service in West Dereham The Parish Clerk reported that he had added the new library service times to the Parish website and will include details in the May Parish Notice.

5.5 Natural Burial trees - The Parish Clerk reported that he had met the owner of Diddlington nursery to discuss the replacement of the dead trees in the Natural Burial area of the cemetery. The Parish Clerk noted that he was uncertain whether the offer of 6 silver birch trees was in line with what had been discussed previously with Parish Councillors. CC commented that it was not as previously discussed and it was agreed that CC and the Parish Clerk would visit the nursery again to confirm the agreement.

5.6 Parish Council and Borough Council Elections 2019 - The Parish Clerk confirmed that the closing date and time for nominations to become Parish and Borough Councillors had passed having been at 4.00pm on Wednesday 3rd April.

5.7 Allotments - The Parish Clerk reported he had written to Richard French and thanked him for his kind offer of help.

5.8 Flytipping - southern ditch along Wereham Road - The Parish Clerk said he had reported that he had contacted the BCKLWN flytipping waste collection team and that they had quickly cleared the larger items, but that there remained a lot of tins cans and small disregarded items.

5.9 Flooded drains, - Hilgay Road - The Parish Clerk reported he had reported the problem to NCC-HD and had received a message that they had inspected and would attend to the matter in the next 6 weeks.

5.10 Entrance gate into field - Ryston Road. The Parish Clerk reported that he had written to the BCKLWN Planning Department to seek advice and was awaiting a reply.

5.11 the Onion Store - fan noises - The Parish Clerk reported that he had written to the owners of the onion Store about the noise generated from the extractor fans and was awaiting a response.

5.12 Ditches - Church Road - The Parish Clerk noted that he had received from a resident living in Church Road copies of correspondence and photographs of the drainage system at the front of his house that had been forwarded to Norfolk County Council Lead Local Flood Department (NCC-LLF). The Parish Clerk reported that he had contacted NCC-LLF for an update. NCC-LLF responded stating that they will send a further survey team to undertake a follow up inspection to determine the effect of their previous remedial works in the next couple of weeks, following the now completion of their flood investigations. When the survey has been completed, a further action plan can be put together for the other issues in the area. BL requested that any future correspondence on this matter should be forwarded onto him and he should be copied into any messages from the Parish Council. The Parish Clerk agreed to send BL a resume of the correspondence.

5.13 Potholes - Church Road - The Parish Clerk reported that he had notified NCC-HD and had received a returned message that they had inspected and would attend to the matter in the next 6 weeks. A Parishioner complained about a number of potholes along Ryston Road. BL recommended that Parishioners should try using the NCC’s website for reporting problems of potholes whereby a sophisticated mapping system is employed and photographs can be uploaded to clarify an accurate position of the problem. CC asked the Parish Clerk to include information of the reporting system in the next parish newsletter. A Parishioner commented that the road surface in Basil Road suffers from potholes and also large areas of asphalt cracking and requires attention.

6\. Reports

6.1 Chairman’s Report - The Chairman reported that the Parish Council had received 4 nominated Parish Councillors and that they would therefore be uncontested positions and 2 candidates who had agreed to stand as co-opted members. CC noted that it was very unfortunate, but that the Council would now lose its Quality Status that it had held since 2012, as there was a need to have a full compliment of seven elected Councillors. A Parishioner present offered to stand as a co-opted member. CC expressed her thanks to the Parishioner.

6.2 Parish Clerk’s Report -

6.2.1 Visit to the Arbory Trust - The Parish Clerk reported he had arranged a visit to the Arbory Trust managed natural burial site near Cambridge to observe a computerized burial plot tagging system that the Parish Council had previously expressed an interest in adopting for its natural burial area in the West Dereham Cemetery.

6.2.2 Training - The Parish Clerk noted that he was booked into a Cemetery Management course 26th June.

6.2.3 Insurance - The Parish Clerk noted that the 3 year Insurance agreement was coming up for renewal and the brokers used by the Parish Council who contact various insurance providers had been in contact to confirm the Parish’s requirements. The Parish Clerk commented that he had written to the brokers seeking some further information on items that required clarification or updating.

6.3 Handyman’s Report

The Parish Clerk commented that Roy Poole the Handyman’s Report of work covered during March 2019 noting the following actions:-

6.3.1 Moved the speed monitor from Hilgay Road to The Row, Ryston Road, changing the battery between the move. 6.3.2 Ordered, collected and moved wire chain-link fencing and granite chipping to the Cemetery and Remembrance Garden areas. Having replaced one section, the Handyman then purchased and replaced a second length. Likewise having ordered and laid one lot of granite it was agreed with the Parish Clerk to purchase further granite chipping. 6.3.3 Weeded the borders and under the hedgerows of the Cemetery and Remembrance Garden. 6.3.4 The Parish Clerk noted that the Handyman had discussed with the application of linseed-type oil to the village gates rather than applying paint or stain. This proposal was agreed by the Parish Councillors. CC reminded Councillors that plain wooden gates had been chosen both to look cleaner than white ones and therefore to minimise maintenance of cleaning or painting.

6.4 Police Report -

PK noted that she had observed a recent Police vehicle presence in the village, although its intentions were unknown.

6.5 Village Hall Report -

PK reported that several new members had joined the Village Hall Management Committee. PK added that the vacuum cleaner, previously reported as faulty has now been fixed; the hall is still waiting for the new till and bottle chiller; the cooker and extractor fan have been booked in for a deep clean, in time for the annual gas examination. PK stated that the end of year accounts are being prepared for audit and the Village Hall currently holds approximately £4,000 across its four hall accounts.

6.6 Glazewing Report -

The Parish Clerk showed the meeting a photograph he had been sent of an un-netted Glazewing lorry leaving the vehicle park area and complaints that company staff were working as late as 8 or 9pm in the evening. BL asked what the permitted hours were in terms of their planning permission? The Parish Clerk is to confirm the hours and advise BL. CC noted that one of the conditions of Glazewing receiving their License from the Traffic Commissioners was that all vehicles carrying waste had to be netted. The Parish Clerk was asked to report the un-netted vehicle to the Office of the Traffic Commission and the late working hours to the NCC Planning Department.

The Parish Clerk reported that he attended the NCC Planning (Regulatory) Committee meeting on 15 March 2019 with one Parishioner to hear the Glazewing application (C/2/2017/2010) for retrospective installation and use of a waste shredding plant (Bano machine) with associated wall constructed using concrete blocks for noise attenuation purposes. The Parish Clerk noted that Glazewing were represented by Richard Stimpson (RS), the Glazewing Compliance Manager and Stephen Daw, Mineral Surveying Consultant. A discussion between NCC officers and County Councillors lasted for approximately 20 minutes leading to an eventual vote. The Parish Clerk noted that all the various and numerous public authorities involved who provided reports, with the exception of West Dereham Parish Council (WDPC), supported the application. The Parish Clerk commented that the NCC permission document stipulates several conditions, including the building of ‘an acoustic barrier’ within 3 months of the notice. The Parish Clerk noted that there had been quite a lot of discussion and concern expressed by several Councillors on the subject of fly nuisance and the number of related complaints received from local Parishioners. The Parish Clerk commented that NCC Officers allayed Councillors’ concerns and noted that the Environment Agency (EA) would be responsible for monitoring the situation. LH commented that she noticed a very comprehensive Fly Management Programme had been written in February 2019 and was meant to come into force on 1 March 2019 and questioned who has responsible for monitoring its effectiveness. CC commented that she hoped it would be all those NCC Councillors who approved the planning application who seemed to know so much about West Dereham and its relations with Glazewing. CC expressed concern at the EA’s previous monitoring during the last three years that the residents of West Dereham have had no faith in. CC asked if Councillors were content that the Regulatory Committee has answered the lengthy and numerous questions that WDPC put to the County Council when it objected to the planning application? In response to a question from LH, the Parish Clerk confirmed that the WDPC objections were not discussed at the meeting.

BL noted that WDPC’s objections would have been included in the NCC Officers report presented to the Committee and that the comments would have been appraised as to whether they were statutory planning considerations. BL apologized that he had been unable to be present due to a clash of meetings. BL added that whenever he has been present at previous planning application meetings involving Glazewing that he has always stressed that the Glazewing operation has not been a good neighbour to the village of West Dereham and that numerous problems that have arisen over the years have never been addressed and dealt with properly. BL continued that the benchmark to approve or refuse an additional piece of equipment i.e. a crusher, within the operation is judged on whether it accords to the Norfolk Minerals and Waste Policy (NMWP)? BL noted that the site is already in the NMWP and so to refuse the application, be it retrospective or not, the likelihood is that Glazewing would have challenged the decision and NCC would have been deemed as working outside of its own policy unless there is a planning reason as to why that particular operation would be inappropriate. CC observed that consent had been a unanimous decision and noted that the comments reported by the Parish Clerk, made by Councillor Martin Storey that West Dereham Parish Council should meet regularly with Glazewing and talk to them about its issues and concerns illustrated that he had no knowledge of the facts. BL noted that Councillor Storey does not represent this area so that he would not be aware of the history. CC commented that if Councillor Storey is making decisions about major things that affect West Dereham village he was duty bound to know all the facts rather than making uninformed decisions about the village. BL noted that Councillors have to make decisions about applications all across Norfolk without necessarily being familiar with the various sites. CC added that although the EA is involved although it has been unable to figure out where the flies are coming from so there is quite a lot of information nationally on the link between bano machines and flies the EA here cannot seem to make the connection. LH commented that the fact that a Fly Management Policy has been put in place, shows there is an awareness of a problem. PB added that 3 years of fly infestations seems to stand for nothing. PB noted that the wall that was seen on a recent site visit was made up of large blocks on two sides, one which backs up against a building and the whole front of the machine is exposed and faces the village and therefore in a prevailing wind the noise emanating comes directly towards the village. PB added that the effect of the wall as it stands is more likely to prevent noise affecting the Glazewing buildings. A Parishioner commented that the character of this site has changed over the years and now allows 17,500 tonnes of municipal waste per annum to be processed. CC noted that WDPC believes there is a conflict of interest with NCC making decisions where they have a personal interest on matters that affect the village. BL said the reason why the decision came to Members of the Council and not officers was because the officers within the Planning team are ultimately responsible to the same Director responsible for planning, waste and environment.

The Parish Clerk reported that he had received an email from Stephen Daw and read out the following message “At the meeting of Norfolk County Councils Planning (Regulatory) Committee held on 15 March 2019, the suggestion of holding regular liaison meetings was made. On behalf of my Clients, Glazewing Limited, I would therefore ask your Parish Council if this is something they would wish to engage in. Could you do this please? I would envisage meetings on a 6 monthly basis, attended by representatives of the Company, Parish Councillors and Norfolk County Council (Planning). I would also suggest we ask the County Councillor Brian Long if he would be willing to Chair the meetings. The meetings would give each party an opportunity to communicate how operations on site were progressing and any problems being experienced locally. All meetings would take place at the West Dereham Waste Recycling Centre and comprise a site tour (weather permitting) followed by an office meeting. As to timing, this would either be late afternoon or early evening on a weekday, preferably more towards the beginning of the week, i.e. Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday. It trust this is of interest and look forward to hearing from you shortly.” CC noted that the proposal of regular meetings between WDPC and Glazewing was not a new initiative; they were previously supported by Christopher Fraser, the local MP of the time and took place every 6 months and only stopped because Glazewing refused to attend them. CC added that in the intervening years since, Glazewing felt that they didn’t want to be held accountable at a meeting in the Village Hall. The WDPC has repeatedly suggested that the meetings should be resumed but there had been no further interest from Jon Miles. Historical minutes of WDPC recordthat Glazewing has not been interested in meeting. CC commented that it is now a good thing that the meetings should take place but it is not WDPC or the people of West Dereham who have not been prepared to do this; it is very clearly Glazewing and this needs to be recorded. CC noted that when the meetings were held, they were held in the village hall immediately preceding a WDPC meeting so that anybody in the village could attend. Parishioners would be aware that it was the half an hour before the Parish Council meeting that Glazewing representatives would be present. CC added that she did see the point of visiting the site depending on the weather and environment and before a discussion meeting, but holding them in the Glazewing offices is not neutral territory. CC commented that It isn’t clear from Stephen Daws’ letter whether he would be present noting that he is the professional adviser who makes all the “waste/industrial” planning applications on behalf of Frimstone and NCC waste and mineral sites and now, it would seem, Glazewing.

CC observed that the membership of the proposed meetings appears to include a heavy ‘planning slant’ with a NCC planning official, which was good, but it is uncertain whether Stephen Daws would be present. BL stated that the presumption that he will be available to chair meetings at their request when he is approached will be met with the appropriate response. An assumption that he can be present to chair meetings to sort out their business was misjudged as he is here to help and represent West Dereham and not to justify Glazewing in terms of what they do and how they work. CC wondered whether there should be a Environment Agency official present? CC suggested the future WDPC should consider whether a couple of residents from Station Road should also attend the meetings as they are mostly affected by Glazewing operations and see what is happening. PK noted that Stoke Ferry PC hold liaison meetings in their village hall and include two Parish Councillors, two members of the public, two staff members from the local mill and the editor of the Village Pump magazine. CC added that a site visit is good, but the village hall is a more neutral place to hold meetings. CC suggested the Parish Council should take its Parish Clerk to any meetings and take its own notes. At the end of the day, the interests of the village and the interests of Glazewing are diametrically opposed in the sense that Glazewing wants to make money and they need to expand their business. This affects this village in a very negative way; the interests of the residential village are very different and it is unlikely there will ever be a meeting of minds; nevertheless there needs to be contact and communication. BL added that in all the time that he has been a County Councillor for West Dereham and before, he has seen planning applications for waste and quarrying operations with a varied picture of owners acting as good neighbours and hopefully that this a genuine offer and they may become good neighbours. LH stated that she is definitely in favour of future dialogue. BL added that an additional problem in being asked to chair such a liaison meeting between Glazewing and WDPC arose in any a new planning application, his position as a member of NCC Planning Committee would be compromised.

The Parish Clerk reported that Richard Stimson had just sent him a message to note at the PC meeting, that “the Bano Shredder has been removed from site, for testing and an upgrade. All dirty ferrous has been removed from site. I will keep you informed.” CC questioned whether it is being modernized or the upgrade increased its capacity? CC requested that the Parish Clerk check with RS what the upgrade involved.

A Parishioner reported that her husband had contacted Glazewing concerning waste lorries belonging to other companies driving along Church Road. She noted that the Glazewing staff member had been helpful and they were told that Glazewing send emails to each of the transporter companies using their site advising of the appropriate local routes and provided the contact telephone numbers for the companies. The Parishioner had contacted the companies and the situation has improved, but believes that the problem of heavy vehicles is contributing to the worsening condition of the local road surfaces, noticeably in Church Road. The Parishioner agreed to send the Parish Clerk the contact numbers.

7\. 7 Finance 7.1 Accounts for March 2019 payments. 7.1.1 Cash Flow and Cash Book March 2019 – The Parish Clerk displayed the Cash Flow on the overhead projector, followed by the Cash Book for March. The Parish Clerk noted that income from Allotment rents of £135.00 and interest of £0.87 had been received and that items of expenditure totalled £1,912.69. The Parish Clerk stated that a cheque for the return of an allotment holder’s deposit issued at the March Parish Council meeting had been returned and withdrawn as it had been assigned to the wrong partner and was being re-issued at this meeting. The Parish Clerk noted that after this evening’s payments, the Parish Council’s three accounts held a total combined balance of £14,718.17. 7.1.2 Cheque Payments for Approval for March 2019 – The Parish Clerk displayed the itemised pending payments on the overhead projector.

Payee Cheque No Net VAT Gross Remarks R. Poole 101069 £200.05 £0.00 £200.05 Handyman's Payment, Expenses & Travel for March 2019 Peter King (Parish Clerk) 101070 £661.82 £0.00 £661.82 Staff Salary and expenses - March 2019 HMRC 101071 £4.60 £0.00 £4.60 PAYE/NIC P. King’s salary March 19 Holly Landscapes 101072 £487.50 £97.50 £585.00 Ground Maintenance - March 19 Anglian Water 101073 £11.84 £0.00 £11.84 Water Bill for Cemetery

West Dereham Village Hall 101074 £374.38 £0.00 £374.38 WDPC Meeting Hire of Hall - Oct 18 to March 19 Allotment Holder 100003 £75.00 £0.00 £75.00 Returned allotment deposit

Total £1,815.19. £97.50 £1,912.69

7.1.3 Cheque Payments - CC asked the Councillors present if they were content with the payments. All Councillors noted that they were content. CC noted that the cheques and control processes would be signed off at the end of the meeting. 7.1.4 End of Year Accounts 2018/19 - The Parish Clerk reported that whilst all the bank accounts balanced he was unable to complete the end of year accounts for this meeting and that it would have to be deferred to the next Parish Council meeting.

8\. To consider Parish Council Internal Affairs and Policies

8.1 Action Plan Green Burial - CC noted that the request for Woodland/Green Burial to be included in Cemetery has been achieved. The Parish Clerk confirmed that Cemetery has not been registered with the Land Registry and the Diocese of Ely has not been contacted regarding additional consecration. TF noted that he would prefer it if that the Natural Burial area was not consecrated. The Parish Clerk to check and confirm whether previous correspondence has been sent to the Diocese of Ely concerning consecration. Village signs - CC noted that due to the cost, WDPC would probably only be in the position to look at just one, one-sided sign in the coming year. CC to contact the sign company. Speeding vehicles/SAM 2 Sign - CC noted that WDPC has been unable to carry out an in depth data analysis. LH commented that she would look into another Parish Council’s analisis of their data. Acquisition of Village Green - CC noted that a letter needs to be sent to the landowner of the land behind the Village Hall regarding a possible acquisition. Maintenance of telephone boxes - CC noted that the WDPC may have to pay for doors to be added. CC advised that the conditions that applied to the purchase contract need to be checked. Neighbourhood Planning - Agreed to retain this item. PB has handed over a Neighbourhood Plan file to the Parish Clerk. New Items to add: Fly problem - To put a plan together with the aim to eradicate the problem. Training 2019/20 - To be identified for new Chair and Councillors. CC asked the Councillors present if they were content with the reviewed Action Plan. All Councillors noted they were content. CC noted that the Action Plan had been revised.

8.2 Handling Complaints Policy CC asked the Councillors present if they were content with the reviewed Handling Complaints Policy. All Councillors noted they were content. CC noted that the Handling Complaints Policy had been reviewed.

9\. Cemetery Memorial - To approve design The Parish Clerk reported that he had received a covering letter and plan of a proposed design of the cemetery memorial from the stonemasons. The Councillors reviewed the proposed design and agreed that the memorial would meet the Cemetery regulations.

10 10.1 Decision – 18/00231/F Stonibruk, Ryston Road, West Dereham - Proposed new building The Parish Clerk reported that he had received notice from BCKLWN Planning Department that the application to build a new property at Stonibruk, Ryston Road had been passed on 11 March 2019.

10.2 Application - C/2/2019/2004 Wereham Recycling Centre, Main Road, West Dereham - Change of Use The Parish Clerk reported that he had received a letter from NCC Community and Environmental Department, Planning Services concerning an application for the change of use to a mixed development to allow the disposal of trade waste in conjunction with the existing household waste recycling centre (maximum of 5,000 tonnes per annum); the installation of a reuse shop for onsite sale of waste items suitable for reuse; the ancillary small-scale sale of non-recycled items (Christmas trees, logs, compost bins and green waste sacks); the operation will be Monday to Sunday from 07:00 to 18:00 hours (all year round).

CC expressed concern at the continual growth of introducing trade waste into the area, now being proposed as all the year around and expanding the operational hours, noting that very soon we will be surrounded by waste recycling. CC added that the site is currently open from Fridays to Mondays for home users and it is difficult to tell if Tuesdays to Thursdays, now being proposed, is only available to trades people. BL commented that every recycling centre in Norfolk has got to be licensed to accept trade waste. BL added that It has always been accepted and that a charge has been made although some criticism has been made of advertising the rate of the charges. BL noted that there is concern at the growth of fly-tipping by tradespeople in connection with small building projects and so NCC is making changes to all its sites so that it can accept the tradespeople’s level of waste and the reuse shops can sell any products that are bought in that are considered to be recyclable and have a re-sale value and that the money goes to charity. In response to a question for LH, BL confirmed that the weight limit of 5,000 tonnes had been set for waste coming onto sites, but that he felt that figure was considerably higher than was likely. CC commented that the concern is not about recycling but the opening hours and the number of days of the year that the site would be open. TF expressed concern regarding the access that he noted is often a problem under the current system, where cars queue back along Main Road causing congestion. PK observed that the queuing is at its worst when the site has to temporarily close whilst the waste containers are exchanged by staff. A Parishioner questioned whether it would be sensible to speak to Crimplesham Parish Council to obtain their views. The Parish Clerk noted that WDPC had to respond within a short timeframe. CC commented that everyone should be conscious of the facts that there is the potential to make the site bigger, that it runs long hours apart from those in darkness and all the year around. BL commented that the application will come before the NCC Planning (Regulatory) Committee who will be the determining body and noted that such changes of use have happened everywhere else and so the likelihood is that the members in considering this application will be mindful that this is in line with all the other sites. PW commented that this site is different to many other sites in that its location is nearer to local communities. CC noted that WDPC already has concerns at the amount of traffic using the A134 and this development might lead to further traffic in the area. A Parishioner raised the concern of the amount of sand and slurry that builds up on Main Road as a result of movement of sands across from one quarry site to the other making the road dangerous under the present circumstances. And close tom the entrance of the site.

The Parish Councilors voted by majority to Object to the application. A Parishioner commented that she was concerned that if too many obstacles were put in the way that it would lead to further fly tipping. BL commented that on this basis of the concerns that were raised that it provided the NCC members with leverage to question details such as the need to have long opening hours and the number of days that the site would be open. PW commented that she was concerned with the scale of the proposed operation noting that at one time Glazewing were able to operate each day without any limitations. BL responded that Glazewing used to have an unlimited tonnage, but subsequent Planning Committees have specified a maximum tonnage and this now cannot be hidden by the use of their weighbridge to check quantities entering and leaving their site.

11\. Correspondence 11.1 ‘Lily” - Services available to all Adults in West Norfolk and Swaffham The Parish Clerk reported that he had received a letter and a number of Lily leaflets regarding the expansion of their services for adults providing advice and support in such areas as housing and care homes, transport and getting around, health and well being and others, with the aim of combatting social isolation. The Parish Clerk will add further information onto the WDPC website. 11.2 YMCA Youth-West Partnership The Parish Clerk reported he had received an email offering a free of charge summer holiday provision for 11 to 18 year olds residing in West Norfolk on the basis of a limited provision and dependent on need. It is noted that West Dereham village is regarded as meeting the requirements for a consultation leaflet to be distributed. The leaflet is to be completed by young people and returned as evidence of demand in support of a summer ‘pop up’ youth provision run by YMCA Norfolk, but requiring certain facilities, as part of the Youth-West partnership. The completed leaflets need to be ready for collection by the YMCA Youth-West Partnership on 30th April 2019. Villages will be notified by email of the outcome of the evaluation. LH commented that the local young people should have the opportunity to complete the leaflets, but the concern is how to circulate them. PW commented that there was little time to circulate the leaflet and obtain responses by 30th April. It was agreed that the Parish Clerk would produce a leaflet for circulation.

All other items of correspondence had been covered elsewhere on the meeting agenda. 12. To receive further reports/items of business for the next Agenda

12.1 War Memorial - PB questioned whether the plaque could be attached to the rear of the war memorial using spacers.

There were no other reports or items proposed. 13. Date of the Annual Parish Council Meeting The Annual Parish Council Meeting will be held on Wednesday 15th May 2019 at 7.30pm in the West Dereham Village Hall. The meeting will be preceded with Councillors’ Surgery at 7.00pm

14\. Open Forum

Closure: The Chairman thanked everyone for attending and final closure of the meeting was at 9.40pm

Next meeting is the Annual Parish Council Meeting on Wednesday 15th May at 7.30pm with Councillor’s Surgery from 7.00pm Clerk: Peter King – Email: clerk@westderehamparishcouncil.uk Telephone: 01366 502110
