---
title: "Stoke Ferry Parish Council May Meeting"
date: "2019-08-26"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

STOKE FERRY PARISH COUNCIL Draft Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting held on Wednesday 15 May 2019 at 7.00pm in Stoke Ferry Village Hall Present: Cllr Sue Lintern (Chair) Cllr Jim McNeill (Vice Chair) Cllr Daphne Clements Cllr Mandy Leamon Cllr Trudy Mann Cllr Gail Reeve Cllr Donna Stocking Cllr Janet Taylor Helen Richardson (Parish Clerk and Financial Responsible Person)

Public: 11 Also, in attendance: Cllr Colin Sampson Cllr Martin Storey, Norfolk County Council Mr Chris Philpott, Footpath Warden 94/19 Emergency Evacuation Procedures was read by the Chair. 95/19 Openness and Transparency Notice The Parish Council record the meeting. The Chair notified the public of this. 96/19 Election of Chair and Vice Chair (Chair and Vice Chair to sign the Declaration of Acceptance of Office)

Cllr Janet Taylor proposed Cllr Sue Lintern as Chair, seconded as Cllr Donna Stocking. Cllr Sue Lintern thanked the Parish Council and felt that she was very pleased to continue in this role. All were in favour. The Chair didn’t vote for herself. Cllr Sue Lintern signed a declaration of acceptance of office as Chair, witnessed by the Parish Clerk and signed. The Chair proposed Cllr Jim McNeill to continue as Vice Chair, seconded by Cllr Donna Stocking, all were in favour. Cllr Jim McNeill signed a declaration of acceptance of office as Vice Chair, witnessed by the Parish Clerk and signed. 97/19 Apologies for Absence There were no apologies received. It was noted the Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey was absent. 98/19 To receive Declarations of Interest from Members on any item to be discussed Cllr Sue Lintern declared an interest in item in relation to a dog waste bin at the River Path off Bridge Road as landowner

.99/19 To approve the Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting on 6 April 2019 and Extraordinary Meeting held on 24 April 2019 It was noted on the agenda the meeting referred to the date of 3rd April but as on the minutes should have read the 6th April. There were no amendments and Cllr Jim McNeill proposed they be accepted as a true record, seconded by Cllr Gail Reeve, six were in favour and two abstained. The extraordinary meeting minutes of the 24th April were proposed by Cllr Jim McNeill to be accepted as a true record with no amendments, seconded by Cllr Donna Stocking, six were in favour and two abstained. 100/19 Matters Arising from the Minutes of the Last Meeting 3 April 2019 – Ordinary Meeting Minutes • It had been noted that the chimney had been repaired at the old Dukes Head empty building but nothing else had been repaired worked such as the expected roof repair. The Clerk agreed to contact the Borough Council for an update • Footpath 1 was heavily overgrown and didn’t measure across at one metre wide being the proper width. The Footpath warden was investigating footpath 4. The Clerk agreed to write to the landowner. • The Footpath warden is investigating footpath 5. (FP4 needs to be properly re-instated. Same landowner) • The Clerk agreed to chase the developer as numerous requests had been given to clear up the brambles at the Indigo Road site. The Clerk agreed to forward the email to Ray Harding, Geoff Hall and Elizabeth Truss and chase for the work to be done and again offer to use the Handyman services with payment of the work done direct. The brambles were encroaching onto the footpath, the Clerk agreed to report it Norfolk County Council. • It was agreed to hold the clean-up day in the village on the 7th July and arrange for litter picker equipment etc available free from the Borough Council. Cllr Jim McNeill volunteered to arrange the advertisement material. A risk assessment was provided with the equipment it was believed. • The licence for the mid-summer fayre had been received. • The Clerk agreed to arrange one-day insurance cover for the two-lane bungee inflatable and the mega slide inflatable. There would be people that would be on hand to oversee the use of the equipment on the day. • The Post Office had advised Cllr. Clements that there was someone interested in providing the service in the village but couldn’t provide any other details at this time and would update as soon as possible. • The cemetery bin was now emptied by the Handyman as the contract with Veolia had ended. • The Mill’s Manager had confirmed at the end of April that the Fire Service had been called to the mill on two occasions as a precautionary measure due to smouldering material in the intake pits. • The planning applications in relation to the Mill Site and Stores had been deferred from the Planning Committee date of 3 June. The Clerk awaited a new date. It was confirmed that both these applications had therefore been ‘called in’ and were being discussed together at a future Planning Committee at the Borough Council. • The following planning decisions had been notified 19/00319/LDP Stoke Ferry Water Treatment Works School Lane Stoke Ferry Norfolk - Application for a Lawful Development Certificate for the proposed installation of ground mounted solar PV array, underground cabling, fencing, gates and switchgear housing Would be Lawful 9 April 2019 Delegated Decision.

The Handyman was due to forward a report regarding their grass cutting schedule and bin emptying schedule. 24 April 2019 – Extraordinary Meeting Minutes • The Clerk agreed to clarify with Planning regarding whether any equipment had to be on the green space or not. • The Chair was following up on a potential lead in relation to knowledge about the footpath that run through the mill site. A Member of public in the meeting had declared to the Playing Field Committee that they were to hand over documents they had in storage which might have useful information, and the Playing Field Committee agreed to review the files to see if there was anything in relation to the path that run through the mill site. 101/19 To Note: Return of Acceptance of Office Returns for Councillors and Stoke Ferry Code of Conduct The Chair confirmed completion of the forms. The Chair congratulated all Councillors on being elected. 101/19 To Note: Review of Declaration of Interest (Pecuniary and Non-Pecuni-ary) (by end of May 2019) The Chair confirmed that the Declaration of Interests had been reviewed and neces-sary forms completed for return to the Borough Council. 102/19 To Note: Election Spending Return (by end of May 2019) The elections spending declaration form had been completed as required, to be kept by the Clerk for 12 months and then destroyed. 103/19 To Review and Approve: Standing Orders The Councillors had received the Standing Orders for review and there were no sug-gested amendments. The Clerk had confirmed that the Norfolk Association of Local Councils had confirmed there were no further revisions to the adopted template sup-plied by them to Parish Councils as a new version in 2018. Cllr Daphne Clements proposed the Standing Orders for approval, seconded by Cllr Janet Taylor, all were in favour. 104/19 To Review: Bank Authorised Signatories and Online Banking It was agreed for Cllr Daphne Clements, Cllr Mandy Leamon and Cllr Sue Lintern to remain as Authorised Signatories. The Parish Council discussed Online Banking. The Clerk advised that moving to an up to date method of managing accounts and payments saved time in writing cheques, putting them in envelopes, buying stamps and posting them. As well as the time signing the cheques. There was also ad-vantages in having access to up to date statements for meeting reconciliation which were never available for each meeting by post and therefore sometimes a month be-hind. The Parish Council felt that there were benefits of moving towards this system and the Chair proposed that this be adopted but a new procedure of Councillors seeing the statements each month and Cllr Trudy Mann agreed to review the statements quarterly. The Parish Council wished to stress that the new procedures in place for checking the accounts were for assurance as they were in complete trust of the Parish Clerk. This proposal was seconded by Cllr Donna Stocking and all were in favour.

105/19 To Review and Approve: Financial Regulations The Financial Regulations had been received by Councillors for review, there were no suggested amendments, they were proposed for approval by Cllr Trudy Mann, se-conded by Cllr Jim McNeill, all were in favour. 106/19 To Approve: Assets Register The Parish Council had received from the Parish Clerk the revised Assets Register for the year as at 31.03.19. The Chair shared that at the beginning of the year the Councillors had started to check maintenance needed to assets and were about half-way through that process. The Chair shared that the value of the assets had changed significantly as historical data kept had been reviewed and items were added like streetlights and the war memorial not historically included as well as the new village sign. The Clerk advised it informed the Annual Governance and Ac-countability process as well as insurance who were provided the list in order to quote annually. Cllr Janet Taylor proposed approval of the assets register, seconded by Cllr Daphne Clements, all were in favour. 107/19 To Approve: Annual Insurance Quote It was agreed to defer to next month’s meeting as the insurer was revising against the Asset Register. 108/19 To Approve: Statement of Accounts 201819 The cashbook of accounts had been circulated on email to the Council for 201819 and the following reconciliation received for the year below. The accounts were pro-posed for approval by Cllr Daphne Clements, seconded by Cllr Jim McNeill, all were in favour. 109/19 To Approve: Annual Accountability Governance Return (AGAR) Audit 201819 The Parish Council approved the Annual Accountability and Governance Return by completing the sections within the document as well as signatures from the Chair and Parish Clerk. The Clerk advised that the document would be made available to Month ending 31 March 2019 Presented at 15 May 2019 Meeting Current account1,301.73£ Business Account 31,525.87£ 32,827.60£ 10176420.00£ 10176425.00£ 32,782.60£ CASH BOOK 26,912.02£ 19,955.05£ 14,084.47£ Closing balance per cash book as at 31 March 201932,782.60£ Add: Receipts in the yearLess: Payments in the year Prepared by Helen Richardson Clerk & RFO Date 12 April 2019 Balance per bank statement as at 31 March 2019:Less: unpresented cheques :Net balances as at 31 March 2019 Opening Balance 1 April 2018

109/19 To Approve: Annual Accountability Governance Return (AGAR) Audit 201819 The Parish Council approved the Annual Accountability and Governance Return by completing the sections within the document as well as signatures from the Chair and Parish Clerk. The Clerk advised that the document would be made available to the public on the website and sent to the External Auditor. The Clerk advised that the Internal Auditor had approved their section of the form with all accounts being correct with all figures accounted for. The internal auditor had recommended listing all three quotes when needed for purchasing anything over £3k as well as the successful amount and adopting a Financial Risk Assessment. All were in favour to approve the document. 110/19 To Approve: Dog Bin Request River Path and Bridge Road Cllr Trudy Mann and Cllr Jim McNeill agreed to investigate whether there were any possible locations to place a dog bin here and contact the Borough Council, Highways and ask the Clerk to contact neighbouring properties when appropriate. 111/19 To Approve: Proposed Gardens and Cemetery Area Work Costs Cllr Jim McNeill presented a further proposal with costs for the works and provided the following update:the public on the website and sent to the External Auditor. The Clerk advised that the Internal Auditor had approved their section of the form with all accounts being correct with all figures accounted for. The internal auditor had recommended listing all three quotes when needed for purchasing anything over £3k as well as the successful amount and adopting a Financial Risk Assessment. All were in favour to approve the document. 110/19 To Approve: Dog Bin Request River Path and Bridge Road Cllr Trudy Mann and Cllr Jim McNeill agreed to investigate whether there were any possible locations to place a dog bin here and contact the Borough Council, Highways and ask the Clerk to contact neighbouring properties when appropriate. 111/19 To Approve: Proposed Gardens and Cemetery Area Work Costs Cllr Jim McNeill presented a further proposal with costs for the works and provided the following update: Parish Garden Plots - I have continued to weed the beds and keep the paved areas tidy. The bed by the bus stop has had a dressing of manure. The bed with the old village sign has been half dressed with manure. Proposed schedule - May/June: Weed all beds, water well and cover all with wood chippings (supplied for free by a local resident) - May/June: The paving by the old village sign needs properly weeding and cleaned between the pavers. It then needs to be infilled with a mix of sand and cement to help restrict future weed growth (Approx. £25) - May: Purchase and plant 6, varied-colour, buddleia shrubs that will attract butterflies and other insects (£44 from Downham Garden Centre) - May/June: Purchase and plant rosemary, thyme, lavender (white &amp; purple) and other herbal plants to create borders and infill (approx. cost £100) - May/June: Purchase 4 x tall Dianthus (carnations) = £32 - Summertime: A local resident has offered, free a large piece of local, ancient, Bog Oak which could be installed, securely in the garden plot with the old village sign New Village Gates - Autumn 2019: Plant 100 daffodil bulbs beside each of the eight gates (800 bulbs = approx. £120) ~ though this may take place in 2020 should there be a delay in installation of the gates. SF Cemetery Proposed schedule - Have gravel at the entrance periodically tidied up by the handyman to stop it spilling onto the roadway - Keep checking for growth of bramble and ivy and cut back as appropriate - Summertime: Paint the iron gates at the entrance to the cemetery (approx. £40 or ‘Mr Sparkle’ may have some black metal paint left from a previous activity)) - Autumn 2019, Subject to liaison with Highways Department, plant 1,000/1,500 snowdrop bulbs along Furlong Road (approx. £150-£175) Village War Memorial Prepare ideas for planting up the two tubs with perennial plants; possibly on a red, white and blue theme. General Cllrs Janet Taylor and Jim McNeill will make an inspection of the Parish Garden areas.

• A site visit of the Bog Oak installation may be needed. • The Village Gates would be progressed this year and if in time for bulbs then they would be planted. • The hedging at the Cemetery was growing well and there had only been around six that hadn’t taken out of a couple hundred plants. • The Clerk agreed to ask the Handyman to paint the Cemetery gates, it was believed he had black paint from the bus stop that could be used. • There was concern about bulb planting along the highway in case they got mowed by Norfolk County Council. • It was felt that the Parish Council needed to liaise with the Handyman a bit more to keep him in the loop. The Chair advised that the Handyman was due to tidy the gardens twice a year and it was agreed that the Parish Council needed to provide support in what it wished to be pruned during the year. • It was believed when the plants were established there would be less need for weeding. • Cllr Jim McNeill agreed to include planting of the war memorial barrels in red, white and blue flowers within the budget. The Chair summarised that there was a total of £500 suggested to over the proposed work, Cllr Donna Stocking seconded, all were in favour. 112/19 To Discuss Application for Comment 19/00699/F Garage conversion and single storey link at Thistledown Lynn Road Stoke Ferry King's Lynn Norfolk PE33 9SW It was agreed by all to return no comments. 113/19 To Discuss Application for Comment: 19/00689/O Stoke Ferry OUTLINE APPLICATION: Proposed new three-bedroom bungalow Land N of Beeches Little Lane Stoke Ferry It was agreed to return no comments in favour by seven and one abstained. 114/19 To Approve: Payments and Accounts Reconciliation to Date Cllr Janet Taylor and Cllr Donna Stocking declared an interest in relation to payments due to be approved for Bonnetts and Cllr Mandy Leamon in relation to the Playing Field Trust Committee for their payment. They agreed to abstain from voting

May-19 Payments for Approval

Payee            Cheque  No.     Payment for                                        Net   VAT      Total

Clerk             101786             Clerks Wages and Expenses -April 19 289.00 0.00  289.00

HMRC          101787              Apr-19                                                  66.80    0.00   66.80

Playing Field Trust Committee 101788   Playing Field Annual Insurance - S137769.930.00769.93 WaveAccount in CreditCemetery Water     18.61       0.00 18.61

Thomas B Bonnett 101789 Village Sign                                      2367.17  473.4 3840.60

Payroll    101790   Annual Fee for PAYE R esponsabilities       272.00      54.40   326.40

Veolia    101791   Cemetery Bin Empty - final Invoice                  27.12        5.42   32.54

Westcotec 101792  Streetlight Maintenance                                46.32         9.27    55.59

EON Direct Debit Street lighting Electricity                                   80.60        4.03     84.63

EON Direct Debit Streetlighting Electricity                                     78.00       3.90    81.90

Internal Audit Fee 101793  Internal Audit Fee                               50.00        0.00    50.00

Veolia 101794 Bin collection fee as closed contract                       18.08        3.62  21.70

Handyman Apr-19                                                                           32.00        0.00  32.00

Grounds Maintenance Apr-19                                                       240.00       0.00 240.00

SF Village Hall Village Hall Hire                                                       30.00       0.00  30.00

Total                                                                                             4385.63 554.07 4939.70

After \*Cash Book As at 1 April 2019

Community Account - Current                           1,301.73

Business Account                                             31,525.87

Minus  Payments Yet to be Processed                    45.00

32,782.60

Carried Forward

Minus Payments to be Approved May 2019       32,7882.60

Minus payments to be made June 19                    31,041 78

Receipts                                                                 15,410.25

46,,451.95

The Chair proposed the approval of the above payments, seconded by Cllr Daphne Clements, five were in favour and three abstained. 115/19 To Receive items of concern & matters to be included on the next agenda from the Parish Council and note forward items • The Clerk agreed to report a pothole outside the village hall. • Cllr Jim McNeill shared that there were major blights in the village, the factories grade 2 listed buildings and liaison meetings had ceased with the mill; concerns about the Bluebell pub now standing empty; the site around the village hall growing up with weeds; the railway station site and Indigo Road development. Cllr Jim McNeill suggested a Committee to push these various issues on these developments. He felt that they needed continual monitoring. The Chair shared that there had been no information on liaison meetings with the mill, but she agreed to follow this up and shared that Committees was on the June agenda. • There were bollards outside the mill which belonged to Charlcroft, but lorries were swerving around them and were dangerous. The Clerk agreed to report the issue. • The Clerk agreed to report to Highways a bent sign on the junction as you come from Oxborough Road. • 2Agriculature had cleared the Sandy path and it looked nice. • The Chair confirmed there would be continued work on the footpath designations in order to have these correct for the 2026 deadline. • The Chair shared that finger posts were not being replaced by NCC and there was an ongoing review of this issue. • The Handyman had agreed to cut footpath five. 116/19 Cllr Colin Sampson (BCKLWN) and Cllr Martin Storey (NCC), if in attendance Cllr Colin Sampson • He advised that Wretton Parish Council may make contact about the use of a Handyman and the process for doing this. • In answer to a query he advised that the Planning department reviewed the applications by sifting first and only selected major applications went before Planning Committee and this had been because of the planning committees taking all day to look hundreds of applications. Any they felt didn’t require Planning Committee determination was decided under delegation Cllr Martin Storey • He was pleased to see so many Parish Councillors returning to their roles since the election which had been a difficult exercise, and it was best to deal with any future issues by sticking together. • At Norfolk County Council they had a full council meeting and had decided to move to a cabinet system of Governance, instead of committee, which was the same as the Borough Council. It was hoped this would be an improvement to the process. • Unpaid carers in Norfolk amounted to one thousand people in Norfolk or 1 in 9, which showed what a vast job it must be for a large amount of people effecting their lives. • There was a lot going on, but most details were on their website. The cuts at the Norfolk County Council were difficult and not an easy job to put in place. • He wished to share that when the budget was set in February he had abstained from the Budget as the cuts to disabled service were one step too far in his opinion. • Any problems or if anyone needed to discuss anything then please contact him. 117/19 Adjourn the meeting to allow for public comments The Chair adjourned the meeting for public comments, and after reconvened it. 118/19 Confirm the Date of the Next Meeting – Wednesday 5 June 2019 at 7 pm, Ordinary Meeting of the Stoke Ferry Parish Council Noted. Closed 9.07 pm
