---
title: "West Dereham Parish Council"
date: "2011-08-27"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "west-dereham"
---

MINUTES OF WEST DEREHAM PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD AT ST. ANDREWS CHURCH THURSDAY AUGUST 4TH 2011

Present: Mrs Claire Cann – Chairman, Mrs Pam Bullas, Ms Paula Kellingray, Mrs Ruth Marsters, Mr Paddy Murfitt, Mrs Pam Walker. 14 members of the public

Papers presented to Councillors: Clerks timesheet, expenditure spreadsheet, papers relating to West Dereham Cemetery, Glazewing report, Quality Council folder

Mr John Miles, owner of Glazewing and Mr Nigel Manning, Director of Glazewing were present prior to the start of the Parish Council meeting to present the six monthly report from Glazewing and to answer questions. Glazewing has recently submitted two planning applications to Norfolk County Council, as requested by NCC, to regulate current site activities. The applications are to include the bailing operation, which is already being carried out, within the building and the submission of an updated layout plan of the site. The Chairman noted that for the second month running the Parish Council has received no notification of these planning applications. The Clerk will contact Norfolk County Council to request copies of the applications to allow the Parish Council to comment on the proposals and enquiries will be made why the Parish Council appears not to have been informed of these applications. It was reported that Glazewing vehicles can now turn off their reversing bleepers as requested. Glazewing is investing in broadband provision and it may be that this will lead to improved broadband availability for the village. More telegraph poles may be erected along Station Road as a consequence of this. The printed Glazewing report for August claimed no complaints had been received by the company in June. This was challenged by a member of the Council who had made a complaint during the month. Following the meeting chaired by Elizabeth Truss MP on April 1st 2011 Glazewing has been providing information requested by Ms Truss regarding progress toward the possible provision of a new access road to the Glazewing Station Road site. The Parish Council will request an update from Ms Truss of the investigations being undertaken by her in relation to the road. Complaints were voiced by members of the public regarding vehicles leaving the Station Road site early in the morning. It was noted that lorries with empty skips create a lot of noise and vehicles are still thought to be speeding through the village. One resident stated that she has given up complaining to Glazewing as this takes up her time but seems to achieve nothing. Glazewing lorries do not appear to adhere to the voluntary 20mph speed limit set by the company. Nigel Manning assured those present speed is monitored and further checks will be made. He will contact Downham Skips and request that vehicles adhere to the voluntary speed limit. Residents were again asked to record and report registration numbers of vehicles when drivers are speeding or using mobile phones whilst driving. Reports should be made to Paul Norris on 01366 502922 or e-mail paul.norris@glazewing.co.uk The Chairman noted that on two separate occasions when driving through Wormegay, Glazewing vehicles ahead were breaking the 40mph speed limit, and during the severe weather conditions in February a Glazewing lorry drove so close to her that its number plate was out of the line of vision from her rear view mirror. This did not suggest an overall respect of village speed limits by company drivers. Highway boundary posts erected to protect the verges along Station Road have been knocked down over the years and need to be re-instated as grass roadside verges are being eroded. Glazewing offered to approach Highways regarding re-instating the posts. There is maintenance work planned for Station Road which will take place when arrangements have been made to close the road. The Chairman asked if Glazewing were aware of the bridge strengthening outside the Glazewing entrance taking place last week by Highways bur Messrs. Miles and Manning knew nothing about this.

1\. Apologies for Absence accepted from: Mr Mark Dawson Mr Richard Rockcliffe – County Councillor

2\. No Declarations of Interest made.

3\. Approval of Minutes The minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on 07/07/11 were agreed as a true record.

4\. Matters arising from previous meetings No matters raised.

5\. Reports: 5.1 Chairman’s Report: Mapping software The Chairman and Pam Walker attended a presentation at an evening arranged by Methwold Parish Council given by Pear Technology promoting the use of their mapping software. The Parish Council is considering purchase of the software and Pear Technology has been asked to attend the September Parish Council meeting so all Councillors can see what is offered and further questions can be asked regarding the use of the product.

Frimstone It was noted that the group of companies of which Frimstone is a part were sold in September 2010. From January 1st 2010 the Frimstone business merged and the workshop at Crimplesham was transferred into a new company, Alboro Engineering Company Ltd (AEC). According to its website the company aims to provide a wide ranging engineering service for both commercial vehicles and mobile and static plant to Frimstone and any external businesses who wish to take advantage of the facilities and expertise that AEC can offer. The Parish Council raised the issue in February that it had not seen a planning application for change of use for the Frimstone site and expressed concern that this seeming expansion of activities could result in more heavy traffic. It has taken some months for Norfolk County Council and the Borough Council to settle their respective responsibilities for the site but Norfolk County Council has now informed the Parish Council that the planning is a matter for the Borough Council. ..........has informed the Parish Council that as a result of this Frimstone is to make an application to the Borough Council for regularisation of activities on site.

A letter has been sent to the Parish Council from Stephen Daw, the agent acting for Frimstone Limited in their recent submissions of planning applications to extend the timescale for operations taking place on the Crimplesham Quarry site (North side of Main Road). The letter sets out reasons why the additional time period is required before operations can be transferred over to the replacement quarry on the south side of Main Road. Development of the new quarry has been delayed due to the recession in the construction industry but preparatory works have taken place on part of the new quarry and it is hoped extraction of sand and gravel will commence in the spring of 2012. For a period of several months mineral will be dug from the south side and hauled over Main Road for processing and sale within the existing operational area on the north side. It will only be possible to erect a processing plant on the south side once a sufficiently large void has been formed to locate the facility at a level which will hide it from view. It was noted that if Frimstone are to operate both sides of the road this will mean an increase in traffic across the road. The Parish Council will continue to voice its original concerns regarding an increase in operations at two sites at the same time, which was never the original proposal.

Norfolk Minerals and Waste Local Development Framework The Parish Council has replied to the consultation regarding the site specific allocation of mineral and waste sites MIN 32, MIN 114a and the consequential WAS sites. The Parish Council has written recording its approval of the decisions not to allocate these sites for development.

Proposed incinerator at Saddlebow, King’s Lynn The Parish Council has responded to the planning consultation from Norfolk County Council by opposing the incinerator proposed by Cory Wheelabrator on grounds of health concerns and in the face of enormous public opposition.

Local Development Framework Notification has been received of the adoption of the Borough Council of King’s Lynn and West Norfolk Local Development Framework Core Strategy in July 2011. The document sets out the vision for the way the borough will grow and it will be followed by the development of site specific allocations which will set out how specific parcels of land may be developed in the light of Core Strategy policies. Councillors were presented with copies of pages from the Core Strategy Document relevant to West Dereham.

Thanks were expressed to Chris Young for trimming back brambles along Lime Kiln Road.

5.2 Clerk’s Report: • It was agreed the Parish Council will submit its portfolio for Quality Parish Council Status in October. • The Clerk attended a Community Resilience Workshop looking at the Governments new Community Resilience Programme which includes a Community Emergency Plan template that can be adopted by the Community. The template and guidance can be found at www.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/communityresilience

5.3 Village Hall Report: • Work continues at the Village Hall. Painting has begun in the Main Hall and internal doors are being fitted. Ceilings are now finished in the extension. • Three further applications for grants to furnish the hall and complete the car park have been submitted.

5.4 Broadband Update: Further correspondence from Andy Ambridge, Senior Technical Design Architect, on the Hilgay/West Dereham Wi-Fi pilot has been received The County Council is committing
