---
title: "STOKE FERRY & DISTRICT LADIES GROUP"
date: "2020-02-19"
categories: 
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

Minutes of the meeting held on Sept 4th Mrs Armsby welcomed 15 members. Apologies were received from Audrey Hudson & Janet Burns. Minutes of the previous two meetings were read & signed. Mrs Armsby thanked Gillian Smith for once again organising the August outing, which everyone had enjoyed. Birthday cards were given to Janet Cooper & Wendy Quadling. There will be 1 in Oct. The food list for the harvest supper was circulated for members to put down the items that they would be providing. Members were asked to suggest venues for the Christmas meal, & to bring a sample menu. The Oct meeting is the harvest supper. Everyone is to bring their own drinks, crockery, cutlery and a raffle prize if possible. DOOR/RAFFLE. Valerie kirchen & Heather Durrance. Jenny Elsey said that anyone who has expenses to claim, should submit them to her in Oct, in order for the accounts to be ready for the Nov AGM. Any ideas for the 2020 programme will also be needed then. Janet Cooper said that her coffee morning for Macmillan cancer care will be on Sept 27th from10.30am-3pm, & she has raffle tickets available for those who cannot come on the day. Mrs Armsby then introduced Liz Murfitt, who makes a range of her own jewellery. She told us that she suffers from Arthritis, & 4 years ago she decided to find a hobby that would help to keep her hands supple. On e.bay she saw people selling their home made jewellery, & decided to give it a go. She ordered a selection of beads & wires, & the necessary tools, which only amounted to a pair of cutters & 2 pairs of pliers. A piece can take a few minutes or up to 4 hours to complete. She displayed an extensive range of her work, which was available for people to purchase. Several members did so. Liz then demonstrated how to make little angels, which can be used as earrings or as ornaments for the Christmas tree. She provided us all with trays of the pieces required, & we all had a go. Wendy Quadling thanked Liz for an enjoyable evening. The raffle was won by Doris Armsby & Jenny Elsey. The meeting ended at 9.30pm. Claire Lankfer (secretary)
