---
title: "Stoke Ferry Parish Council February Meeting"
date: "2015-04-02"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

**Minutes of Stoke Ferry Parish Council Meeting held in the Community Centre, All Saints Academy, at 7.30pm on Wednesday 11th February 2015**

 

Those attending:  Cllr D Clements (Chair), Cllr P Denny, Cllr S Lintern (Vice-Chair), Cllr T Mann, Cllr T Ryves, Cllr L Scott, Cllr J Stocking, Borough Cllr C Sampson, County Cllr M Storey, Mrs J A Taylor (Clerk), nine members of the public

 

1. **To consider accepting apologies for absence**

 

Cllr Leamon (unwell).

 

2. **To Approve the Minutes of the last Council meeting on 14 January 2015**

 

Proposed:  Cllr Lintern.  Seconded:  Cllr Mann.  **Carried**.

 

3. **Matters arising**

 

Visit by Highways rangers and overgrown hedge in Bridge Road:  Clerk had had no contact, but would follow up again.

Overgrown hedge, bungalows by Playing Field – Freebridge to be contacted again by Clerk, who would also mention pathway behind bungalows.

Ownership of land adjacent Bridge Road, and The Common – Cllr Clements waiting for relevant maps, will report next meeting.

State of Furlong – Clerk to chase Highways again.

Footpath from the Common to the moorings:  Cllrs Clements and Leamon unable to inspect due to inclement weather.

Grit bin at Buckenham Drive:  Clerk understands Borough Council representative in charge of planning application is responsible – to follow up.

CPRE Light Pollution questionnaire – input received from Westcotec and Chris Philpott – completed at meeting.  Clerk to submit responses.

Email from Mrs Liz Snapes regarding speeding on Lynn Road:  Clerk has responded, further response once PCSO issue debated and confirmed.

Anglian Water tariff – Clerk had investigated and established that the tariff was the lowest possible for a non-domestic household premises.

Intermittent street light, corner of Boughton Road – now working.

Venue for Council meeting – the other half of the Community Centre was not occupied during the meeting, and if this remained the case then there would be no problem in continuing to use the Centre.  If the problem with noise re-occurred, then the Village Hall would be free on the required evening, which was the venue used prior to the CC being built.  The Chapel had been suggested as an alternative location, but it was felt that this would be too small.

Replacement seat at The Common:  this was now in place and in a better position than before.

Dog bin at The Common:  this had been emptied.

 

 

 

 

 

4. **To report any declarations of interest from members on any item to be discussed**

 

Cllrs Lintern and Mann declared on Item 7, Grass cutting on Playing Field, as they are members of the Playing Field Trust; Cllr Stocking on quotes for work at Cemetery from Bonnett’s.

 

5. **To consider PCSO match funding scheme**

 

Cllr Lintern reported.  Methwold and Mundford parishes were interested in reviewing the scheme, and Hockwold parish was in touch.  It might be possible to arrange a meeting for the end of March.

 

Cllr Clements reported that it appeared that when presentations were being made to parishes, it had been commented to parishes in Norfolk that Suffolk parishes were very interested, and vice versa.  Feedback so far from the village was that it was felt that the police service was already being paid for through Council Tax and so any additional charge should be unnecessary.

 

A vote was taken with the proposal that the PCSO scheme be rejected.  Cllr Denny proposed, seconded by Cllr Mann.  Four against, three for; **rejected**.

 

A vote was taken amongst the public attending:  eight against, one for; **rejected**.

 

A detailed discussion followed amongst councillors and public, putting forward pros and cons for the scheme.  It was agreed that a wider consultation should be made amongst residents, and potentially a public meeting held to discuss the issue.  Cllr Lintern agreed to place a request for views in The Pump.

 

County Councillor Storey queried whether a pilot scheme had been put in place to review whether crime were reduced after 12 months of operation.  If not, it might be prudent to wait until such a pilot had been conducted.

 

6. **To consider Site Allocations and Development Management Policies Document**

 

The following comments were put forward for inclusion in the response to the Document.

 

The PC would like to request that a representative from BCKLWN attend the village and indicate where the surgery is.

The bus service is virtually non-existent, certainly not adequate to allow working people to make use of it.

PC would like BCKLWN to list what the employment base is.

The village does not have full infrastructure, since it is not completely on mains sewerage.

G.88.2 Land at Bradfield Place, PC would like to know where access will be.

G.88.3 Land at Indigo Road, PC would like cast-iron guarantees that the Village Hall will get a carpark.

Any gains for the village promised under S106 should be provided before any development begins, to pre-empt the situation after the last development where the developer failed to provide the promised facilities.

 

Clerk to construct the response.

 

7. **To consider grass cutting for the Playing Field**

 

Cllr Mann had held a meeting with CGM and discussed the quote for grass cutting.  She confirmed that the carpark was now included at no extra charge.  Regarding complaints about the speed of the mower, there would be someone monitoring this.  The quote has been modified to include 17 cuts from 1st March to 31st October, which would be an extra £69.  During wet weather, the frequency would increase, during dry weather, decrease.  The rubbish bins would be emptied, once per week, 52 weeks per year, at £221.  The total revised cost for the Playing Field is now £500 for the year.

 

Cllr Denny proposed acceptance; Cllr Stocking seconded:  six for, one against; **Carried**.

 

8. **Elections to Parish Councils May 2015**

 

The Clerk informed the meeting that parish council elections were due on Thursday 7th May, and that nomination packs were available from her.

 

9. **Composition of Council Committees**

 

It was agreed that until the new Council were confirmed in May, all councillors would be welcome to attend any Committee.

 

1. **Payment authorisation procedure and payments procedure**

 

Clerk queried whether it would be practical to move away from issuing cheques for payment and towards internet banking.  Authorisation levels for the payments would remain the same.  Councillors wished to see safeguards in place such that no one person could transfer funds from Council accounts.  Clerk to refer to NALC for guidance.

 

1. **Cemetery – administration, works and request for disinterment**

 

Re the request for removal of ashes from the cemetery, the Clerk had received a partially-completed form from the family member concerned for submission to the Ministry of Justice for permission.  The Clerk would complete the form and the Chair sign on behalf of the Council as Burial Authority.  It would be stipulated that the grave must be made good; the Clerk to photograph the grave beforehand as a record of its condition.  Cllr Denny would research what the appropriate fee for administration would be.

 

Review of charges for the Cemetery:  this would be deferred until the new Council is in place.

 

Safekeeping of Cemetery ledgers:  various options were suggested:  keeping them with other village records at Norwich Library (rejected, since ledgers could be needed at any time without notice); bank safety deposit box (Clerk to investigate); purchase of a fireproof safe (Cllr Stocking to investigate, Clerk to supply size of ledgers); fireproof filing cabinet.  In the meantime, it was agreed that the ledgers should be photographed digitally so that the information could be kept safely on computers and back-ups (Cllrs Mann and Lintern volunteered to do this).

 

Works:

 

Bonnetts had supplied quotes for completely refurbishing the gates and the noticeboard.  It was decided that a minimal refurbishment could be provided free of charge.

 

It was proposed that residents be invited to donate new benches to the Cemetery.  No particular design would be specified, but the Council would reserve the right to approve.  An announcement would be made in The Pump.

 

Replanting of hedge:  a quote had been received, but it was felt that this would be something that residents could do themselves.  It was suggested that Didlington Nurseries might be able to donate suitable plants.  To be discussed by Cemetery Committee.

 

Removal of ash tree and lopping of branch on left-hand side:  quotes had been received, further quotes were requested – Clerk to obtain.

 

Cllr Ryves gave apologies and left the meeting (needed to pick up someone at 9pm).

 

2. **To consider Planning Applications approved/refused by Borough Council**

 

Retention of garage at The Shambles, Greatmans Way – application permitted.

 

3. **To approve payments to be made**

 

<table width="750"><tbody><tr><td width="103">Date</td><td width="330">Item</td><td width="77">Chq/DD</td><td width="80">Net</td><td width="80">VAT</td><td width="80">Gross</td></tr><tr><td width="103">31/12/2014</td><td width="330">Glazewing, Cemetery bins December 2014</td><td width="77">DD</td><td width="80">14.00</td><td width="80">2.80</td><td width="80">16.80</td></tr><tr><td width="103">16/01/2015</td><td width="330">Glazewing, EPA charge 1/1/15 - 31/12/15</td><td width="77">DD</td><td width="80">60.00</td><td width="80">12.00</td><td width="80">72.00</td></tr><tr><td width="103">31/01/2015</td><td width="330">Clerk salary, January 2015, and non-consolidated payment December 2014</td><td width="77">Chq</td><td width="80">397.24</td><td width="80">0.00</td><td width="80">397.24</td></tr><tr><td width="103">31/01/2015</td><td width="330">Clerk expenses January 2015</td><td width="77">Chq</td><td width="80">63.55</td><td width="80">2.31</td><td width="80">65.86</td></tr><tr><td width="103">01/02/2015</td><td width="330">Eon, electricity, January 2015</td><td width="77">DD</td><td width="80">32.06</td><td width="80">1.60</td><td width="80">33.66</td></tr><tr><td width="80">566.85</td><td width="80">18.71</td><td width="80">585.56</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5" width="670">Balances at 31/1/15:&nbsp; Business Saver Account £10,545.76:&nbsp; Community Account £203.12</td></tr></tbody></table>

 

 

Cllr Lintern proposed; Cllr Mann seconded; **Carried**.

 

4. **Correspondence received**

 

Cllr Clements had received a letter from the Chair of the Village Hall querying whether a wider range of organisations within the village could receive funding from the Parish Council.  Cllr Clements recommended that the Village Hall committee submit a request if they wished.

 

Further to the Christmas Tree and Concert, Cllr Clements’ granddaughters informed the Council that donations of £50 had been made to Stoke Ferry Football Club and the Village Hall.  They wished to thank Ed Taylor for accompanying the carols, Mally Reeve, Pat Swale and Carol Hardy for all their help, and Ed Taylor and John Nicholas-Letch for putting up the tree.

 

Letter regarding the Consultation on the Community Infrastructure Levy from BCKLWN.  Clerk informed the meeting that information was on the BC website.

 

Email received from Andrew Carrier at Fraser Dawbarns, solicitors for the owner of the former Duke’s Head premises, regarding the stopping-up application.  Mr Carrier provided further information.  Councillors expressed particular concern about the arrangements for access to the rear of the premises, as these were not shown on the planning application plans.  Cllr Mann undertook to investigate further.

 

5. **To receive Further Information or suggested items to be considered for the next meeting Agenda (Councillors/Public)**

 

Cllr Clements reported back from the 2Agriculture/village liaison meeting.  The air-quality monitor might be in place in mid-February.  The potholes at Furlong Yard would be repaired in the spring.

 

Cllr Clements had received complaints regarding dumped rubbish on the Playing Field.  Cllrs Mann and Lintern agreed to remove this.

 

Cllr Denny reported that Mr Jim Kirchen had repaired the tarmac on the Playing Field – the Playing Field Committee had thanked Mr Kirchen.

 

Cllr Denny reported a significant pothole on the Methwold Road past the roundabout – Clerk to contact Whittington Parish.

 

Comments from members of the public:

 

Bridge Road, between corner shop and old station, there is a deep rut next to the pavement.

 

Village Hall Chair:  commented that they had made no requests of the Parish Council, but were now faced with a significant problem in repairing the roof.  She was invited again to put in a request for funds if she wished.

 

Ms Reeve commented that regarding the Site Allocations Document, although the recommended 26 carparking spaces were probably not adequate, nonetheless, they would be grateful for any provision.

 

Interest was expressed in donating a bench to the Cemetery – Council requested that an application be sent in.

 

County Councillor Storey commented that County Hall budget setting meeting was the next Monday, and all information will be posted on the website.  Please contact him if any help is required.  Borough Councillor Sampson echoed the sentiment.  He added that if the ash in the Cemetery were suspected of having ash die-back, then once it is felled, it should be burned on site.  It was commented that the tree was known to be extremely old and this was more likely the cause of its dying.

 

Site allocation document:  the comment was made that Stoke Ferry seemed to be receiving more development than most other areas and that logically, the GP surgery should be based in the largest village in the locality.  Would it be possible to move the surgery from Boughton to the site of the previously-proposed new village hall?

 

Cllr Sampson suggested that the Care Quality Commission might have some input regarding what the village saw as an inadequate health-care provision.  He requested that when the response to the Site Allocation Document was submitted requesting that a representative from the Borough Council attend the village and point out the GP surgery mentioned in the document, that he be copied in.

 

6. **Date of next meeting.**

 

The next meeting will be held on Wednesday 11th March, at 7.30pm in the Community Centre.

 

The meeting closed at 9.15pm

 

 

 

 

Chair ..............................................               Date ............................................
