---
title: "Wretton Parish Council March Meeting"
date: "2020-05-25"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "wretton"
---

1228/04/2020 MINUTES OF WRETTON PARISH COUNCIL PLANNING MEETING HELD AT ALL SAINTS CHURCH WRETTON 2ND MARCH 2020 Present: Cllr David Llewellyn – Chairman, Cllr Mick Peake, Cllr Mandy Peake, Cllr Martyn Cann, Cllr Ian Mack, Cllr Paul Williams. Also present: Borough Councillor Colin Sampson and Norfolk County Councillor Martin Store 0 members of the public present. 1. Apologies for Absence received from: Cllr Peter Garnett 2. No Declarations of Interest made: 3. Approval of Minutes: The minutes of the meetings held on 06.01.2020 and 11.02.2020 were confirmed as a true record. 4. Update on matters arising from previous meetings: Covered in reports or as agenda items. 5. Reports 5.1 Chairman’s Report • The reinstatement of the hedge which was removed in Chequers Lane has taken place and replanting has taken place approximately 1 meter back from the line of the original hedge. It is possible this could now allow the road to be made wider and the situation will be monitored. • HGVs continue to drive through the village and verges are being destroyed by them. It is believed vehicles avoid Low Road as it has a weight restriction but follow Sat Navs down roads that are totally unsuitable. A suggestion was made to investigate whether signage stating “Do not follow Sat Navs!” could be installed adjacent to other road signs. • The Parish Council has offered to provide a page for All Saints Church on the Council website. 5.2 Clerk’s Report Correspondence passed to Councillors: • Police Drop in Surgeries 08.01.20 • Norfolk ALC Updates 28.01.20, 30.01.20, 10.02.20, 12.02.20 • Love West Norfolk Day 03.02.20 • Keep Britain Tidy 12.02.20 • Norfolk ALC Training Bulletin 24.02.20 • Police Newsletter 24.02.20 • E-mail received regarding field drainage has been passed to Highways • Carer’s Conference West Norfolk 27.02.20 2228/04/2020 5.3 Risk Assessment Update The Clerk has received a report of a vehicle regularly parking on Wretton Green. A letter will be written to the owner of the vehicle once they have been identified. 6. Accounts were presented and accepted for payment. Cheques for approval of payment Payments for February 2020 Clerks Salary £118.44 Street Light Maintenance (Feb. March) £38.64 Maxey Grounds & Co (rent of play area) £107.00 BCKLWN (Dog bin emptying) £350.43 Watton Town Council (photocopying) £6.00 Bank Balances at 31.01.2020 Current Account £5889.67 Savings Account £3465.93 Note that £95.37 has been received for recycling credits from the paper bank. 6.1 It was agreed to engage the same Internal Auditor, Mrs Ann Morgan, as in recent past years. 7. Project Updates 7.1 Wretton Green “pond” area – Cllr Paul Williams is still looking into how the “pond” can be filled in. He is in touch with the Environment Agency and is hopeful of finding a solution. 8. Storage and retention of documents The Parish Council will look to store recent documents electronically with historic hard copy documents to be sorted and re-filed more efficiently with unnecessary paperwork to be disposed of. 9. Additional grass cutting for 2020 It was agreed to engage the current grounds maintenance contractor to add mowing of the triangle and verge at the junction of West Dereham Road and Church Road to the grass cutting contract for 2020/21 as quoted. 10. No Planning Applications received for consultation 11. Other Reports – for information only: • Highways are to install bollards to prevent large vehicles damaging the verge by Church Path. Chairman’s Signature……………………………………… Date……………
