---
title: "Wretton Parish Council Meeting July"
date: "2020-09-30"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "wretton"
---

1317/08/2020 MINUTES OF WRETTON PARISH COUNCIL VIRTUAL MEETING HELD ON JULY 6TH 2020 Present: Cllr David Llewellyn – Chairman, Cllr Martyn Cann, Cllr Ian Mack, Cllr Peter Garnett, Cllr Mandy Peake, Cllr Paul Williams. 1. Apologies for Absence accepted from: Apologies received from Cllr Mick Peake. Apologies also received from Borough Councillor Colin Sampson and County Councillor Martin Storey. 2. No declarations of Interest made 3. The minutes of the virtual meeting held on 04.05.20 were agreed as a true record. Minutes will be signed once the Council can meet physically. 4. Reports (including updates from matters raised at the meeting on 04.05.20) 4.1 Chairman’s Report • Cllr Mack reported that he has checked the defibrillator and that all is fine following possible use with it but it is suggested that lighting around the phone box could be improved so that it is easier to see the keypad. Cllr. Cann offered to investigate installation of LED lighting in the phone box later in the year when the nights begin to pull in. • Dog fouling continues to be a problem especially in certain areas as previously reported. 4.2 Clerk’s Report • Correspondence received continues to be shared with Councillors. • The Parish Council has been invited to comment on the review of the planning ‘sifting panel’ and a response will be drafted to be submitted. 4.3 Risk Assessment Update The play area the in village has been locked during the Covid lockdown and will remain shut for the present time. This will be reviewed at the next Parish Council meeting but the equipment will need to be checked before the play area is re-opened. 5. Accounts were presented and accepted for payment. Cheques for approval of payment Clerk’s salary £118.44 K & M Lighting Services x2 (streetlight maintenance) £38.64 Software annual 356 licence £59.99 CGM grass cutting (April/May inc. cutting of footpaths) £531.00 Norfolk Association of Local Councils subs £121.87 Internal Audit £123.25 Fasthosts domain renewal £25.18 HMRC PAYE £44.40 2317/08/2020 Finance – @ 29th March 2020: Current Account £9577.18 Business Premium Account £3467.15 6. Annual Governance and Accountability Return 2019/20 6.1 The Report from the Internal Auditor was accepted and Section 1 of the Annual Governance Statement 2019/20 was signed by the Chairman. Actions will be taken to address the points raised in the Internal Auditor’s Report: • The Clerk will be provided with equipment to undertake work if needed • Electronic storage of documents will be progressed. Cllr. Llewellyn will produce a proposal for use of Drop Box. • Depreciation of assets will be considered as felt appropriate once guidance has been checked. 6.2 Section 2 of the Annual Governance Statement 2019/20 was accepted and signed by the Chairman. 6.3 Declaration made that Wretton Parish Council is exempt from the requirement for a limited assurance review (External Audit) with the Certificate of Exemption was signed by the Chairman. 7. Low Road speed limit Concerns have been raised regarding vehicles parking along Low Road and causing obstruction of the Highway. Visibility is also being hampered pulling out from Church Road as vehicles are parked outside the Old Red Lion. It is believed there is a license in place to cultivate the land but it is thought parking is not permitted. This will be checked with Highways again. The Parish Council has made enquiries regarding whether the speed limit along Low Road can be lowered, but has been informed that Norfolk County Council Highways would not support a reduction in the speed limit as the road and environment does not meet the criteria laid down in the current speed management strategy and the accident history is good. Highways will be approached again to request what the speed management strategy actually states and the Police will be contacted regarding hazards created by parking along Low Road. 8. Planning Applications: No application received for consultation 9. Other Reports – for information only: • Cllr. Williams has no update on filling in the ‘pond’ on Wretton Green as the Environment Agency is only responding to emergency situations since lockdown. Noted that there has been criticism on Facebook that the pond area is very overgrown and looks a mess. • It was reported that the West Dereham Road has flooded during heavy rain and it appears that the grups and verge are higher than the road surface and thus water cannot get away. 3317/08/2020 • Concern was raised that a caravan which is being lived in is located at the Old Gatehouse and other caravans are being used as accommodation in Cromer Road. • Councillors will continue to monitor the re-instatement of the hedge in Chequers Road as a condition of re-instatement is that the hedge must be replanted again if the plants fail. Public Participation - No members of the public present Chairman’s Signature……………………………………… Date……………
