---
title: "Stoke Ferry Village Hall - AGM 2016"
date: "2016-02-18"
categories: 
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

Stoke Ferry Village Hall (Registered Charity Number 274033)

Minutes of the Annual General Meeting held at the Village Hall at 7.00pm on Wednesday 18 November 2015

DRAFT

Present: G Boughen, G Phillips (Treasurer), M Reeve (Chair), P Sewell, J Taylor (Secretary), J Trollope, one member of the public.

1\. Minutes of 2014 AGM

Upon the proposition of M Reeve, seconded by P Sewell, it was resolved unanimously “That the Minutes of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, as tabled at this Meeting, be, and they are hereby, approved.”

2\. Matters arising

There were no matters arising.

3\. Accounts

The audited Income and Expenditure account for the year ended 31 March 2015, together with the Balance Sheet as at such date, were tabled and, upon the proposition of M Reeve, seconded by P Sewell, it was resolved unanimously “That the Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 be, and they are hereby, approved.”

4\. Election of Committee Members

There being no new candidates for election to the Committee, upon the proposition of M Reeve, seconded by J Taylor it was resolved unanimously “That the current members of the Committee, namely G Boughen, D Klyn, S Klyn, G Phillips, M Reeve, P Sewell, J Taylor, J Trollope be, and they are hereby, duly re-elected to service as Committee members until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.”

5\. Election of Officers

Upon the proposition of P Sewell, seconded by J Trollope, it was resolved unanimously “That M Reeve, J Taylor, and G Phillips be, and they are hereby, duly reappointed as Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer respectively and to hold such Offices until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.”

6\. Chair’s Report

The Chair provided a brief summary of the charity’s activities and progress during the past year, and of its plans and aspirations for the coming year.

The Hall has continued to be used at least three nights per week throughout the year, along with bookings during the daytime. Strong support from the community continued, via donations, bookings, and gifts used as prizes.

The Hall had been connected to the mains sewerage system.

The exterior had been repainted.

The mending of the roof had been agreed.

The Committee continued with its search for new members for the Committee and particularly hoped that younger members of the Stoke Ferry community might be interested in joining.

The Committee hoped to resolve the ongoing situation regarding donation of a carpark to the Village Hall in the coming year (see Secretary’s Report).

7\. Secretary’s Report

The Village Hall Committee had applied to the Parish Council for funds in this financial year towards repairing the roof, and next financial year for replacing the kitchen floor.

Roof insulation: confirmed that non-domestic properties are not eligible for grants. Secretary to investigate cost of insulating roof, assuming no other funding available.

Insurance: annual policy renewed; public liability re building works confirmed as covered.

Stoke Ferry Regeneration Ltd. Secretary had spoken with Paul Bishopp who was keen for the contract between the Village Hall Trustees and SFRLtd be moved ahead, now that the Borough Council Site Allocation hearings were underway and planning permission would be applied for soon. Secretary had also spoken to Colin Bailey at Fraser Dawbarns to determine current status.

Committee members raised concerns regarding the track record of SFRLtd.

Secretary to speak further with Colin Bailey and Stuart Ashworth at BC Planning and report back to the Committee.

A bat survey had been done on the Village Hall, at the request of SFRLtd, as they must show that their proposed development would not interfere with bat flight paths.

8\. Any other business

It was queried whether the current form signed by hirers of the hall included a disclaimer regarding liability from catering supplied by the hirer. Secretary to review.

There being no further business for discussion, the Chair declared the meeting closed at 7.50pm.
