---
title: "Wretton Parish Council July 2017 meeting"
date: "2017-11-03"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "wretton"
---

1310/08/2017 MINUTES OF WRETTON PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD AT THE CHURCH MONDAY 3RD JULY 2017 Present– Cllr David Llewellyn - Chairman, Cllr Martin Cann, Cllr Mick Peake, Cllr Mandy Peake, Cllr Bill Whitmore, Cllr J Wyett. Borough Councillor Colin Sampson County Councillor Martin Storey present for latter part of the meeting 6 members of the public 1. No Apologies for Absence received 2. No Declarations of Interest made 3. The Minutes of the meetings held on 08.05.17 and 08.06.17 were agreed as a true record. 4. Matters Arising from previous meetings  Transparency Grant The Parish Council has been awarded a grant of £1255 to purchase a laptop, software, scanner etc. to enable the Parish Council to meet the regulations of the Transparency Code.  White Gates 40mph roundels have been requested for the white gates that have been installed on the West Dereham Road but no communication has been received from Highways regarding this so far. Signs in Fen Road are also in need of replacing.  Street Name Plate Signs Cllr Sampson suggested a list of missing street name signs (provided by the Borough Council) be passed to him so he can investigate replacement. Highway concerns were raised concerning pot holes still not being repaired in Fen Road (half have had work) and that grass is not being cut at the corner of All Saints which is a causing problems with visibility. There is an ongoing issue regarding whether this area is cut by the Borough Council or Norfolk County Council. The Parish Council would like a definitive answer on this and Councillor Sampson will endeavour to locate a map indicating which body has responsibility for cutting the area concerned. 5. 5.1 Chairman’s Report The Chairman had nothing to report other than in relation to items already on the agenda. 5.2 Clerk’s Report Correspondence received is generally passed to Councillors electronically and has included:  Notification that the Highways Rangers will be visiting the parish w/b 24th July. Several requests have been passed to them for work to be undertaken. 2310/08/2017  An electoral review of Kings Lynn and West Norfolk warding arrangements is being undertaken and comments are being sought. However it is expected that there will be no changes to the local ward and therefore the Parish Council had no comment to make.  The grounds maintenance contractors are to arrange to obtain extra keys for the play area gate to replace those mislaid.  Notification has been sent of Norfolk County Councils 2018 Parish Partnership Scheme  It was noted the Council should request a letter of engagement from the Internal Auditor. This is good practise and something the External Auditor has been requesting from Councils this year. 5.3 Risk Assessment No matters raised. 6. Accounts were presented and accepted for payment. Cheques for approval of payment SJ Scarrott £118.44 K & M Lighting £35.04 CGM £118.44 It was also agreed Soundwave marketing would be paid £72.00 once the invoice is received. Financial position @ 03.07.17 Community Account Balance £5430.91 Business Savings £3451.53 It was agreed by all that £1600 received back from the Norfolk County Council Parish Partnership Scheme towards the cost of the SAM2 vehicle activated sign would be transferred from the current account to the Business Savings Account. It was noted the £1255 Transparency Grant is held in the Community Account. 6.1 Purchase of dog waste bin It was agreed by all that a new dog waste bin would be purchased once permission has been obtained to site a bin near the footpath sign at the end of Lydia’s Lane. 7. Risk Management Plan The Risk Management Plan was reviewed and accepted as presented. Consideration will be given as to whether or not the Parish Council should register with the Information Commissioner as a data controller. Previously a policy that registration will not be undertaken has been adopted but the possible necessity to register will be re-visited and action taken if it is now felt registration should be undertaken. 8. Village Projects It was agreed that the suggested projects of fitting a defibrillator in the village phone box and/or using the phone box as an information kiosk and that of managing the ‘pond’ area on Wretton Green should be looked at as village projects and proper plans need to be put in place. Funds thought to be in the region of £1000 would be needed to purchase and 3310/08/2017 install a defibrillator in the phone box. Bill Whitmore will consider acting as Project Manager for this initiative and further discussion will take place at the next meeting. Consideration will also be given to re-painting the phone box. The ‘pond’ or Wretton Wildlife Area as designated by the Parish Council will be looked at with the view to removal of the trees and options will be sought for either total removal in one clearance or phased removal. A timed and costed plan is needed to manage the trees but to maintain the area as a wildlife area. The popular suggestion is to remove the current trees and replace with native hardwoods and a draft proposal will be made at the September meeting of the Parish Council. Residents of the parish will be kept informed of the plans and will be consulted regarding the options offered. 9. Consideration of planning applications received 9.1 17/02103/F rear extension to dwelling Chequers, Chequers Road, Wretton Interest declared by Chairman. Mick Peake took no part in this item. Proposal supported as development was thought to enhance the building. 10. Date of next Parish Council meeting It was agreed by all that the next Parish Council meeting will be set back one week and will take place on September 11th 2017. 11. Further Report  The ‘No Parking’ signs on Wretton Green are in need of replacement. It was agreed new signs would be purchased up to a cost of £50.  It was noted the Wretton Facebook page is not administered by the Parish Council.  West Dereham Road was reported as having flooded recently and it was felt the roadside grupps need to be cleaned out. Verges are encroaching on to the road which narrows the road.  It was noted that former Parish Councillor Nigel Pilgrim has died. A sad loss to the Parish. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION  Councillor Storey advocated the benefits of Councillors attending training stating that the planning training organised by the Borough Council is well worth going to.  Recent odour thought to be emanating from Wissington Sugar Plant is reported to be possibly from clearing out of the on-site lagoons but a consultant has been engaged to locate the source of the smell.  Norfolk County Council is to suffer more cuts as there is a need to save much more money in the forthcoming years.  Pot hole reported at the top of Field Lane where it joins the bypass. Chairman’s Signature……………………………………… Date……………
