---
title: "Stoke Ferry PC Minutes - June 2016"
date: "2016-08-18"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

STOKE FERRY PARISH COUNCIL

Minutes of the meeting held on 8th June, 2016

Attendance: Chairman Mrs C Hardy Vice Chairman S Lintern Councillors Mrs D Clements M Leamon J Nicholas-Letch M Precey J Taylor County Councillor M Storey Borough Councillor C T Sampson Members of the public 15

Emergency Evacuation

Members and members of the public were advised of the emergency evacuation procedures for the Village Hall.

1\. Apologies

There were no apologies for absence

2\. To receive Declarations of Interest from Members on any item to be discussed

Cllr Clements declared an interest if the item referring the Car Scheme

3\. To discuss and agree co-option of Parish Councillor

Mrs J Taylor had forwarded a letter to be considered for co-option onto the Parish Council. Members asked questions and were then asked to vote. At the first vote there was not an absolute majority and therefore the Clerk asked that a second vote be taken.

For 2 Against 4 Abstention 1

Mrs Taylor was advised that unfortunately she had not been co-opted onto the Parish Council.

5\. To agree Minutes of the meeting held on 11th May, 2016

Proposed - Cllr Clements Seconded - Cllr Taylor

'That the minutes of the meeting held on Wednesday 11th May, 2016 be approved'

All in favour

6\. Matters arising

Permission is still be sought for a dog bin in the vicinity of the Academy

7\. To agree the end of year Finance Reports 2015/16

All members had been given copies of the year end accounts. The Clerk went through the figures and explained the final financial position of the Council.

Proposed – Cllr Clements Seconded – Cllr Taylor

That the year-end accounts for the financial year 2015/16 are approved.

All in favour

8\. To agree the Governance Statement for 2015/16

The Clerk read out the details of the Governance Statement and advised members that at this time no internal auditor had been appointed.

Proposed – Cllr Precey Seconded – Cllr Clements

‘That the Governance Statement be approved although it was noted that there was no Internal Auditor at present’

For – 6 Abstention - 1

9\. To consider Public Rights of Way (Footpaths/Bridleways)

a. Grass cutting of the footpath from The Old Bull to Greatmans Way Complaints had been received from members of the public that this particular footpath is extremely overgrown. Cllr Lintern advised that she had been replacing the footpath signage and it was an increasing problem that the paths were not kept trimmed back. There are two new moorings on the river but only one has been cut. It was agreed to contact Mr Coleridge, who is believed to be the owner, asking if he could rectify the situation. Cllr Lintern and a resident are to attend a seminar on Public Rights of Way within the next week. Borough Cllr Sampson agreed to investigate any areas of grass cutting relating to the Borough Council.

10\. Update on requests for Parish Council funding i. Funding for the electric supply for the Playing Field The electricity was now in the process of being connected.

11\. To discuss an event to celebrate the Queen's 90th Birthday

Most things were now in place. There would be a climbing wall at a cost of £450 which will be paid for by the Parish Council A Spider which would be charged for on the day. So far there had been requests for 2 x car boots, 1 x jewellery and 1 x clothes stalls. It was essential that the grass be cut and CGM would be contacted. The Parish Council insurance company would be informed of the event. Lee McCarthy would be asked to do the risk assessment. Boarding was also needed for the band and Cllr Hardy agreed to try and arrange this. It should be a lovely event for all the village residents to enjoy.

12.Website

Cllr Nicholas Letch gave all members ‘snapshots’ of the current website which had not be completed yet. If members did not like the set-up of the current one he would be able to build a new site which could be more versatile. It was agreed the Cllr Nicholas Letch would investigate an alternative site.

13\. To discuss Hospital/Doctor Car Scheme

Cllr Nicholas-Letch provided members with a breakdown of the journeys and the costs for the financial year 2015/16. There was no driver expenditure and there was currently in the region of £300 in the bank account.

The following points were raised again • What was the legal definition of this type of organisation • What did the original minute state when this was first agreed by the Parish Council • At which meeting was it agreed to subsidise the car scheme

It was felt that the minutes needed to be looked at from previous years to see what decisions were made by the Parish Council.

14\. To consider amending the start time for meetings to 7.00pm

Proposed – Cllr Nicolas Letch Seconded – Cllr Taylor

‘That the Parish Council meetings will now commence at 7.00pm’

For – 6 Against - 1

15\. To discuss and agree bank signatories

Proposed – Cllr Taylor Seconded – Cllr Nicholas Letch

‘That Cllrs Leamon, Precey and Hardy be bank signatories’

All in favour

Cllr Clements would no longer be a bank signatory

16\. To discuss the purchase of a projector (to show planning applications) against the cost of receiving paper plans from the BCKLWN

After a short discussion it was agreed to purchase a projector to show plans.

Proposed – Cllr Leamon Seconded – Cllr Lintern

That a projector be purchased up to the value of £300.00’

All in favour

17\. To discuss seat in the cemetery

There was nothing to discuss on this matter 18. To approve payments of bills

Proposed - Cllr Taylor Seconded - Cllr Lintern

‘That the bills be paid as per the attached schedule’

All in favour

19\. To receive correspondence

The majority of correspondence is now emailed to members

20\. To receive information or suggested items to be considered at the next meeting (Councillors/ Public)

It was requested that the bills for payment be put in the Village Pump – this was agreed. Could a simple map be put in the Village Pump showing the footpaths in and around the village. The Parish Council should consider producing a Neighbourhood Plan and it was agreed that this would be on the next agenda. Cllr Clements resigned as the representative for the meetings with 2Agriculture. The next SNAP meeting will be on Wednesday 3rd August at the Town Hall in Downham Market.

Borough Cllr Sampson advised that a decision for Devolution was awaited. The Borough Council cut the grass on 6-week cycle but he would check into this with the relevant officer.

County Cllr Storey also advised that the decision for Devolution was imminent although information seemed to be changing on a daily basis. The Norfolk Partnership Scheme was available again this financial year and would now be on a 50/50 basis.

Public comments: Serious concerns over the grass cutting in the village For the Queens Birthday celebrations could a donation be requested from the supplier of the Spider as the children would be paying to use it. Could the Borough Council be asked to pay for the projector. Could the Borough Council be consulted about putting the playing field as a ‘Field in Trust’ which would safeguard it for the future. Concern over the grass cutting of the playing field – meeting to be arranged

21\. Date and time of next meeting - Wednesday 13th July, 2016 at 7.00pm

Meeting closed at 9.30pm
