---
title: "West DerehaMay 16n PC Minutes 4"
date: "2016-07-21"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "west-dereham"
---

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL MEETING OF WEST DEREHAM PARISH COUNCIL HELD AT WEST DEREHAM VILLAGE HALL AT 7.30 pm WEDNESDAY 4 MAY 2016 PRESENT (6 Councillors): - Claire Cann (CC) – Chairman, Pam Bullas (PB), Lorraine Hunt (LH), Paula Kellingray (PK), Pam Walker (PW), Claire Williams (CW). Clerk: - Sarah Thorpe Brian Long (BL) – County Councillor Sandra Squire (SS) – Borough Councillor 4 members of the public were in attendance. Papers presented to Councillors: (i) Financial Management Report (spreadsheet); (ii) Expenditure (for approval); (iii) Glazewing report. The Chairman welcomed everyone present and opened the meeting.

1\. Election of Chairman and declaration of office. A proposal was made by PK and seconded by PW that CC should be elected as Chairman. No further nominations were received. It was agreed by all that CC should be elected as Chairman. CC accepted the role and signed the declaration of office.

2\. Election of Vice Chairman and declaration of office. A proposal was made by CC and seconded by PB that LH should be elected as Vice Chairman. No further nominations were received. It was agreed by all that LH should be elected as Vice Chairman. LH accepted the role and signed the declaration of office.

3\. Nominations of Councillors with special responsibility. 3.1 Finance: A proposal was made by CC and seconded by PW that PK should be elected to the post. No further nominations were received. It was agreed by all that PK should be elected to the role. 3.2 Footpaths: A proposal was made by CC and seconded by LH that CW should be elected to the post. No further nominations were received. It was agreed by all that CW should be elected to the role. 3.3 Police: A proposal was made by CC and seconded by CW that PK should be elected to the post. No further nominations were received. It was agreed by all that PK should be elected to the role. 3.4 Village Hall: A proposal was made by CC and seconded by LH that PK should be elected to the post. No further nominations were received. It was agreed by all that PK should be elected to the role. 3.5 Youth: A proposal was made by CC and seconded by PB that PW and TF should be elected to the post. No further nominations were received. It was agreed by all that PW and TF should be elected to the role. 3.6 Neighbourhood Planning: CC suggested that in view of the PC agreeing to undertake a Neighbourhood Plan a Councillor should be appointed to special responsibility for this role. A proposal was made by CC and seconded by LH that PB should be elected to the post. No further nominations were received. It was agreed by all that PB should be elected to the role.

4\. Apologies for absence. Apologies had been received from Tom Foy (TF) who was attending a work course.

5\. Use of social media, audio recording of meeting and invitation for public contributions. CC asked “Will anyone present be filming, recording, blogging, or tweeting during this meeting?” No member of the public present at this stage advised that they would. CC advised members of the public that if they wished to comment on any item, before a decision was made, they should raise their hand and they would be invited to speak.

6\. Minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on 7 April 2016. CC confirmed all Councillors had seen the minutes of the Parish Council (PC) meeting held on 7 April 2016. These were agreed as a true record and signed by the Chairman.

7\. Reports. 7.1 Chairman’s Report. CC provided a summary of PC activities during the last year. • Annual Parish Meeting took place on 14 April and was attended by SS and 21 parishioners. • Neighbourhood Plan – BC representative gave a talk at the Annual Parish Meeting. • Every household had been individually informed of every PC meeting. • Precept – no increase to residents for 2016/17. • Station Road post box had been replaced. • Two new dog waste bins had been installed. • New cemetery gates and pillars were imminent. • Garden of Remembrance improvements start shortly. • Mobile speed sign purchased. • Only street light converted to LED to reduce cost. • Village Decorative Gateways about to be installed on Hilgay, Ryston and Lime Kiln Road. • Programme of repainting village bridges and sign posts continues. • Finally got limited Broadband in village. • Thanks to Parish Councillors, Clerk, Handyman and Allotment Liaison Officer.

7.2 Clerk’s Report. 7.2.1 SAM2 sign. Now that the PC has accepted the offer of funding from Norfolk County Council (NCC) for the sign the next stage was to agree locations where the sign could be installed. These sites would need to be within the 30mph areas of the parish, and there must be a minimum of three locations as the signs cannot remain in one place for more than 4 weeks, and must not return to the same location for 8 weeks. In the next village notice the PC would be asking for residents to come forward with suggested locations so that these can be discussed at a PC meeting, and then a meeting will be arranged with the Highways Engineer who will need to approve the suggested locations. 7.2.2 Neighbourhood Plan. The PC had now advised the BC that the whole parish is to be the designated area of the plan and the BC had responded to ask the PC if they wished to suggest any people, organisations or groups which the PC would like to specially notify about the consultation on the area of the plan.

7.3 Handyman’s Report. The Handyman had completed the work on clearing the ditch off Ryston Road, cut back brambles to improve the access to the footpath from The Row to the Village Hall; removed unwanted signs from around the village; strimmed the footpath near the junction of Church Road/Bath Road and carried out a general monthly inspection.

7.4 Police Report. PK advised that weekly updates from the police did not show any incidents in the parish but further shed burglaries had occurred on three consecutive nights in Boughton.

7.5 Village Hall Report. PK advised that the village hall continued to do well and that there had been lots of bookings made recently with approximately two new bookings being made each week. The Village Hall had recently had a period of 11 consecutive days of events on each day.

7.6 Broadband Report. PW advised that she had received an update from Karen O’Kane (KOK) from Better Broadband for Norfolk (BBfN). It was now expected that the new cabinet that had been installed on Church Road near Hudson’s Garage would be operational by the autumn. PW to confirm with KOK the extent of Lime Kiln Road coverage by new cabinet.

7.7 Glazewing Report. Richard Stimson, Compliance Manager, at Glazewing (GW) had provided a monthly report for the PC meeting. The report stated that GW had received a number of complaints regarding vehicles speeds. He had issued a memo to all their HGV drivers, reminding them of the speed limits and access routes to the site through the village of WD. He had also issued access routes and speed limits to all third party contractors. He advised that if there were any further problems to let him know. GW had arranged for the watercourse adjacent to their park to be cleaned out, and they will set up a maintenance plan for this. With regard to dust from container yard, GW will be putting up 5MPH speed limits signs for this area, also during dry spells they will use their water bowser to suppress the dust. An email had been received from a resident advising of an incident that they had reported to GW. This incident occurred on 27 April at 16:06 when an articulated lorry was seen travelling up Lime Kiln Road laden with scrap metal. The vehicle registration and description was reported to GW. It was felt that this incident was covered in the report from GW. A parishioner enquired if GW could be asked to advise all drivers using the site of the access route and CC informed the parishioner that GW had previously stated that they do already do this. The additional signage to be installed on the A134 by Highways has still not been done. It was agreed that the Clerk should chase this matter up again.

8\. Finance. 8.1 Accounts. Accounts for approval and the monthly financial management report were submitted by the Clerk. She advised that the income and expenditure for March 2016 had now been confirmed and a full review of finance for 2015/16 would take place at the June PC meeting. A new spreadsheet had been set up for 2016/17 which showed the budgeted income and expenditure for the year and estimated figures for April have been inserted based upon invoices received. Payee Cheque No Net VAT Gross Clerk’s salary, expenses for April – 42 hours 100860 535.68 535.68 Handyman’s contract, expenses plus 27 hours for April 100861 244.45 244.45 Stephenson Smart – payroll administration 2015/16 100862 125.00 25.00 150.00 Fraser Dawbarns LLP – Land Registry for Cemetery 100863 134.00 20.00 154.00 Norfolk Assoc. of Local Cncls. – Annual subscription 100864 119.11 119.11 Environment Agency – Drainage rates for 2016/17 100865 16.29 16.29 E-on – street lighting electric for 2015/16 100866 35.42 1.77 37.19 Came & Company – Annual Insurance policy 100867 460.87 460.87 Total 1670.82 46.77 1717.59

The first seven payments were considered and approved. Cheques to be signed at the end of the meeting. Clerk to make enquiries with the Environment Agency regarding the location of the land that incurs a charge. BL advised that he believed it was an upland contribution which would be payable for the allotment land.

8.2 Review of Clerk’s salary. The PC agreed that a review of the Clerk’s salary should be carried out following the anniversary of her appointment in January. It was agreed by all to increase the Clerk’s pay scale to the next scale, SCP 24 which is currently £11.190 per hour and that this should apply from January 2016.

8.3 Handyman’s contract. The current Handyman’s contract had commenced on 15 October 2015 and it had been agreed to review the contract after 6 months. A provision had been made in the PC budget to allow an increase from £7.50 to £8.00 per hour. It was agreed by all to increase the hourly rate to £8.00 from 15 April 2016. It was also agreed that the contract be amended to include maintenance and moving of the SAM2 sign and that the word “approximately” should be removed from the hours of duty.

8.4 Parish Council Insurance for 2016/17. Four quotations had been obtained for PC insurance. These quotations were discussed and it was agreed by all to enter into a three year agreement with Aviva through Came and Company as it was felt that this policy provided the best cover for the PC.

9\. Parish Council Internal Affairs and Policies. 9.1 Statement of Internal Control for 2015/16. The Clerk explained that the Annual Return required the PC to agree that it had a system of internal control and that this was reviewed. A draft document had been draw up by the Clerk and it was agreed by all to approve the Statement of Internal Control document with the addition of an item to state that all financial transactions for the whole of the financial year are displayed on the overhead projector at every PC meeting.

9.2 Review of Councillors’ Register of Interests Forms. The Clerk reminded Councillors that at this time of the year their attention is drawn to their Register of Interests to consider if any amendments are needed. All Councillors present did not wish to make any amendments at this stage.

10\. Planning. 10.1 Applications. None 10.2 Decisions. None

11\. Village Assets. 11.1 Purchase of combi goal posts/hoops for the recreation ground. One quotation had been obtained for the post/hoops which was galvanised steel without the plastic coating; it had not been possible to obtain any other quotations as all of the products available seemed to be plastic coated. It was agreed to purchase two of these combi goals from Sport-Thieme for £1336.29 each plus VAT. It was agreed that they would be ordered once the funding was available and arrangements had been put in place to install them.

11.2 Contract for maintenance of street light. A contract had been provided by Westcotec at £5 per annum for maintenance of the one street light. It was agreed that the Clerk should sign the contract on behalf of the PC.

11.3 Stone pier caps for new cemetery gates/pillars. The builder had provided information on suitable stone caps. A design was agreed as long as the builder felt the size was correct. Clerk to check with builder and ask him to obtain price.

11.4 Benches and bird bath for the Garden of Remembrance in the Cemetery. Quotations had been obtained from Tor Stone for stone benches and a bird bath. It was agreed by all that two Cranleigh Bench Seats at £179.99 each and one Classic Liberty Bird Bath at £159.00 should be ordered. Clerk to check on means of securing to the ground and place order.

12\. Correspondence. 12.1 An email had been received from Albanwise regarding the Public Rights of Way (PROW) footpath and the permissive footpaths across Manor Farm. They sought the PC’s views on a proposal that the current PROW footpath should be substantially extinguished and that in return they would dedicate a new route which would enable the impassable footpath passing through Willow Farm garden to be extinguished, and allow the Crimplesham residents to access the network to the south through the farm, which technically currently they cannot do at all. For safety the route would track round the farmyard, passing the pretty route to the west of the grain store. The proposal was discussed and the PC agreed that they would be fully in support of this proposal and that a reply should be sent to Albanwise to inform them of the support of the PC to this suggestion but to inform them that any amendment to the PROW would need the approval of NCC which the PC felt was unlikely to occur due to past experience on this issue. 12.2 An email had been received from NCC Trading Standards regarding re-launch of the Market Fair Scheme. The email was given to PK.

13\. Other Business – Any additional reports and items for inclusion on the next Agenda. 13.1 CW advised that residents had approached her about persistent disturbance from the excessive noise of scooters/motor bikes in the Station Road area. This matter had been reported to the police but little action had been taken and the problem continued. BL suggested that residents affected should contact the Community Safety Neighbourhood Nuisance (CSNN) department at the BC at they had powers on such matters that could be more effective. It was agreed that an item would be placed in the next village notice informing residents of the situation and of the contact details for CSNN. 13.2 PW advised of several incidents of bagged dog waste being placed on the ground near to dog waste bins rather than in the bins. She had checked and the bins were not full. 13.3 PW advised that residents at The Row had contacted her with concerns over the position of the dog waste bin at the entrance to the footpath from The Row to the village hall. It was agreed that the Clerk would provide a map of the area and that PW would discuss with residents a preferred location which would then need to be agreed with Highways prior to the Handyman moving the bin.

The official meeting concluded at 8.50pm, and was opened to the floor for general comment. Open Forum. • A parishioner asked if the PC would make another request from Highways for the replacement of the broken wooden posts at the front of his property and his neighbour’s property on Station Road. It was agreed that the exact location should be given to the Clerk at the end of the meeting and a request would be made to Highways.

Closure. The Chairman thanked everyone for attending, and final closure of the meeting was at 8.53pm. Next PC meeting is on Thursday 2 June 2016 at 7.30pm with Open Surgery from 7.00pm. Clerk: Sarah Thorpe Email: clerk@westderehamparishcouncil.com Telephone: 01945 430930

Chairman’s signature …………………………………… Date ……………………………
