---
title: "Wereham News July"
date: "2018-07-29"
categories: 
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "wereham"
---

June Update from the Wereham Village Hall Committee The new village hall is complete and now we are busy moving everything across from the old hall. It has been a massive effort to get to this point but what a reward to see its very first use for the Craft Fayre at the beginning of June – definitely worth the wait!! We have an open weekend scheduled for the weekend of Saturday 30th June – Sunday 1st July. There will be an opportunity to tour the new facilities as well as an introduction to some of the new activities that will be on offer including taster sessions. Please do come along to learn about the exciting activities and opportunities coming to Wereham in the near future. This will also be the very last opportunity to donate to our Buy-a-brick campaign (we might have finished building but there are still bills to be paid and numerous fixtures and fittings that still require funding). For more regular updates and photos, follow us on our Facebook page. Victoria, John E, John M & Rachel Wereham Village Hall Bonus Ball Club The lucky winners of £60 each in March were Louise Kavaney and Jean Shepherd – congratulations to you both! Helen Richardson, Secretary. Events list Bingo - Wereham Village Hall "Cash Prize" Bingo every Wednesday, doors open 6.45, eyes down 7.30pm. Teas/coffees available with complimentary biscuits. For enquiries contact Angela (01366 500115) or Diane (01366 500798). Pop up Café – first and third Tuesday of the month, 10.30-1pm. Join us for a slice of homemade cake, a hot drink, a natter and a read of the daily papers all for just £1.50. Light lunches also available – look out for our monthly specials! Cake donations/queries to Doreen on 01366 500218. Next dates are Tuesday 3rd and Tuesday 17th June. Car boot and Café – last Sunday of the month, 9am-1pm (café opens at 8am). Next dates are Sunday 29th July and Sunday 26th August. Café serving bacon butties, hot dogs and hot drinks. £5 per pitch. Contact Philip on 07759033492/01366 501330 e-mail rosemary.pease@btinternet.com. For all the pictures and feedback from our events, log onto www.facebook.com/werehamvillagehall. By clicking on the ‘Like’ option, you will be kept up to date on events, pictures and the progress towards a new village hall. Wereham Tots Wereham Tots meet Fridays (term time only) in the village hall 10.00am to 12 noon. Do join us for a coffee and chat whilst the little ones are playing and making new friends. Wonderful selection of toys and crafts, music and singing sessions. Healthy snacks served. £2.00 per session up to two children, 50p for extra child.

Wereham Parish Council Next Meeting Date Tuesday 10 July 2018Â Ordinary Parish Council Meeting to follow after approximately 7.00 pm Agenda items must be received before the end of the month prior to each meeting, items received after this time will not be possible to discuss.Â Please send to the Parish Clerk at werehampc@gmail.com.Â The Agendas for meetings are always published on the Wereham Village Notice Board three clear days before the meeting, on the Wereham Parish Council Facebook Page and on the website www.werehamparishcouncil.co.ukÂ Â You will also find minutes of all meetings here too Helen Richardson Parish Clerk and RFO 07795006811
