---
title: "Custom-Build opportunities in Stoke Ferry"
date: "2020-07-29"
categories: 
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "villages"
---

People are being asked to register their interest in the opportunity to custom-build their own home on a site in Stoke Ferry.A short online survey has been launched to gauge demand for the site in this west Norfolk village. The survey is available at west-norfolk.gov.uk/haveyoursay -> consultations and is open until 10 August 2020. The decision to potentially release this site for self-build follows the strong response we received to an initial survey which aimed to identify demand for self-build properties in the area. The site, if approved for development, will aim to offer up to 20 serviced plots in two phases. This site is located on the edge of the village overlooking open fields and will accommodate a range of custom-build opportunities, including lower cost, affordable housing plots. Cllr Richard Blunt, said: "We urge anyone interested in building their own home in this lovely west Norfolk village to register through the survey. Once we know the level of demand and the types of property people are looking for, we can look to bring this site forward for development. The survey closes on 10 August, so I would encourage anyone interested to complete it as soon as possible. Custom Build homes can be a real and affordable alternative to buying a new build from a developer." Anyone who is interested in self build generally can sign up to the council's Custom and Self Build Register. Anyone can register if they are: - aged 18 or over - a British citizen, a national of an EEA state other than the United Kingdom, or a national of Switzerland - seeking to acquire a serviced plot of land in the King's Lynn and West Norfolk area to build a home to occupy as their sole or main residence Interest is growing in custom and self build housing, and encouraging it is one of the government’s strategies to increase house building. Custom and self build currently account for just 10% of new homes in the UK: compared to 60% in Germany, France and Italy. Custom build offers people an opportunity to work with a developer to design and build a home tailored to their specific needs, and self build means getting involved in the construction of their home; from employing someone to build it, to laying the bricks themselves. The register acts as a point of contact between people who are interested in custom and self build plots, and developers who can provide such plots. Anyone who has registered their interest may be contacted by the borough council regarding specific opportunities for custom and self build that arise. To find out more and apply to join the register, visit www.west-norfolk.gov.uk and search “self build”. The Borough Council of King's Lynn & West Norfolk is working with Custom Build Homes to undertake this survey work.
