---
title: "Stoke Ferry Parish Council - Chairman’s Report"
date: "2020-05-25"
categories: 
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

Our Parish Council year 2019/20 has ended in a way none of us could have imagined, with the Corona virus putting a stop to all meetings. So I thought I’d give you a brief report and update on Parish Council activity. Several members of the Parish Council have overseen the set up and working of the Stoke Ferry Volunteer Group to provide a delivery service for essential shopping and prescriptions, as well as being on hand for anyone needing a friendly telephone chat. The service will continue to operate as long as needed, so if anyone needs to contact us, just look us up on the Facebook page Stoke Ferry Isolation Volunteers or you can email me directly. During the past year the Parish Council has liaised with the Borough Council to ensure the views of the village are taken into account when looking at the planning application by 2 Agriculture Mill and our wish to have the ‘Bluebell’ an asset of community value. This year we have also started to put together the Neighbourhood Plan which will help our community to influence the planning and development of the village. Our aim is to set out your vision for the future of Stoke Ferry, so we encourage everyone to get involved. Last year’s Summer Fayre was another huge success with money raised going to both the Village Hall and the Playing Field. Sadly, this year the Fayre has had to be cancelled so we will save the 50th anniversary celebrations for next year. Our village gates are now being installed with more to be situated. Work on the signage will start as soon as possible. As part of the Parish Partnership Funding we have approval to continue the updating of our Public Rights of Way so will be adding numbering signage to the fingerposts so that they tie in with the footpath booklet we produced last year. The footpaths continue to be upgraded. This year steps were added to FP5 to make it easier to navigate. This year we hope to have more updates for the definitive map as well. Meanwhile, the grass cutting, and maintenance contracts continue with Mr Sparkle doing an excellent job. As always if anyone sees an area that needs improvement just let us know. Our communal gardens also continue to be upgraded and, in the autumn, we aim to plant more bulbs. Village charities and organisations continue to be supported and on behalf of all of us, I take this opportunity to thank the many volunteers who keep them running. Their help makes them possible. I must also thank our Clerk for her diligent work. She has now passed her CiLCA qualification, which is very well deserved. We feel lucky to have Helen working for us. I hope you are all taking care of yourselves so that you come through this stressful time safely. Let us all look forward to a brighter future. Sue Lintern Chairman of Stoke Ferry Parish Council
