---
title: "STOKE FERRY & DISTRICT LADIES GROUP"
date: "2018-11-27"
categories: 
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

Minutes of the meeting held on Nov 7th Mrs Armsby welcomed 13 members. APOLOGIES were received from Valerie Kirchen, Heather Durrance, Audrey Hudson & Joy Beckett. Minutes of the previous meeting were read & signed. CORRESPONDENCE- Peter Thorpe wrote to thank us for our contribution to his fundraising in memory of his late wife. A final total of £1600 was presented to Gayton ward at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital. An email from Ray Thompson gave details of the Christmas Extravaganza to be held at Stoke Ferry village hall on Sat Dec 22nd. Several members were interested in attending. Yvonne Self agreed to deliver Joy Beckett’s birthday card. Two will be needed for Dec. Mrs Armsby reminded members to fill in the order form with their meal options, & pay in advance if possible. Mrs Hearne confirmed that arrival would be 6.45 for 7pm start. Mrs Elsey thanked everyone who had knitted poppies for the Armistice weekend displays. JAN ROTAS were decided, to avoid doing business at the restaurant. TEAS-Jean Carter & Yvonne Self. DOOR & RAFFLE- Wendy Quadling & Joy Beckett. There will be the usual raffle in Jan, for which everyone was reminded to bring a wrapped prize. There being no other business , the AGM followed. Treasurer’s report. Mrs Elsey circulated copies of the annual accounts. She said that the overall loss of £101.48 was due to lower attendance numbers & rising cost of speakers, although Mrs Cooper had kept these to a minimum. Members voted to keep subs at £15, & teas & raffles as they were for another year. Secretary’s report. Mrs Lankfer said that the group had 18 members in2018, with an average monthly attendance of15. There had been a varied programme of speakers, a flower demonstration & an antiques quiz. The events committee had organised 2 social suppers & a lovely outing to Stamford, & afternoon tea on a cruise around Rutland water. It was another good year under the firm leadership of Mrs Armsby. Mrs Armsby then thanked all the officers for their help, but said that it would be nice to increase our membership for the coming year, if possible. ELECTION OF OFFICERS Chairman: Mrs Armsby had agreed to stand again, & was unanimously approved. The remaining officers were persuaded to carry on, with Mrs Horgen joining them as deputy treasurer. However, the vacant post of programme secretary could not be filled, so Mrs Armsby suggested that we all do it together. Several members came up with ideas, & agreed to follow them up. A rough programme was planned, & any bookings will be given to Mrs Cooper, whose husband will kindly print the programme for us. It was decided that birthday cards worked better than posies, & Mrs Horgen agreed to carry on buying them. The raffle was won by Gillian Smith & Jean Carter. The meeting ended at 9pm. Claire Lankfer (sec)
