---
title: "Minutes of Stoke Ferry Resident's Association Committee"
date: "2004-11-01"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "wretton"
---

The Resident's Association looks forward to it's first AGM

Meeting of the Stoke Ferry Resident's Association Committee

On Monday 11th October 2004 at 7.30pm

in the Grampian Conference Room

Present: Robin Kerr (Chairman), Tim Read (Treasurer), Ray Thompson (Secretary) Dawn Beckwith, Mandy Leamon, Guy de Montfort, Roy Summers,

Alan Whitford

ITEM 1 WECOME & APOLOGIES

Apologies had been received from Nathan Allen and Glen Kaveny and from representatives of KL&WNB and TOWN.

ITEM 2 MINUTES OF LAST MEETING

The minutes of the last meeting were accepted as a true record.

ITEM 3 ACTIONS ARISING

All actions completed

ITEM 4 ELECTION OF VICE CHAIRMAN AND SECRETARY

Ray Thompson advised the meeting that he had to resign from the meeting due to pressure of work. Guy de Montfort proposed that Ray Thompson be elected as Vice Chairman of the Association. This was seconded by Robin Kerr and the proposal was agreed unanimously.

ITEM 5 ASSOCIATION CONSTITUTION

The outgoing secretary tabled copies of the draft constitution for discussion. After some discussion it was agreed that the requirement for members to pay an annual fee of Â£1 should be withdrawn. It was also considered that membership of the Association should be open to all residents of Stoke Ferry.

ITEM 6 FINANCE

The Treasurer agreed to set up a Bank Account and arrange for multiple signatories for all cheques issued by the Association. The meeting agreed that the Treasurer should be the sole authority for issuing cheques and should always be one of the signatories. It was also agreed that the Chairman should be an authorised signatory.

ITEM 7 ANY OTHER BUSINESS

a. Committee Membership.

It was agreed that the association would benefit greatly if current village group leaders were co-opted to the Resident's Association Committee.

b. Heavy traffic on Stoke Bridge

Roy Summers advised that several lorries with an unladen weight which exceeds the weight limits imposed on the Stoke Bridge are regularly flaunting the embargo.

Action. Mandy Leamon agreed to pass on the complaint to the Parish Council.

c. Bridge Road Hedge

Ray Thompson advised that he had received a complaint from an elderly resident of Wretton Road regarding the hedge on Bridge Road which extended beyond the footpath making it impossible to walk towards the Old Bull without walking on the road. Mandy Leamon advised that action was in hand in the Parish Council to correct this problem.

ITEM 8 DATE OF NEXT OPEN MEETING

The meeting agreed that the next open meeting should be the first Annual General Meeting of the Resident's Association. It was agreed that the AGM should be held in the Village Hall on Monday 6th December 2004 at 7.30pm

ITEM 9. DATE OF NEXT COMMITTEE MEETING

The meeting agreed that the next committee meeting should be held in the Village Hall on Monday 8th November 2004 at 7.30pm.

The meeting closed at 8.30pm

Ray Thompson
