---
title: "Boughton News - December"
date: "2016-02-18"
categories: 
  - "boughton"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

Boughton News The 5th biennial Boughton Scarecrow Week was held at the end of October. Boughton was again blessed with warm and sunny weather for the event run by The Boughton Village Caravan, (BVC) who have been putting on social events in and out of the village for some 9 years now. The week during which a magnificent 20 entries saw scarecrows displayed an open theme, and on show all around the village, culminated in a bbq and prize giving event on Saturday 31st afternoon at the Boughton Village Centre. The Halloween themed afternoon, with The Fabulous Bacon Boys on duty to provide bacon rolls to entrants and visitors alike, saw nearly 70 people attend, also enjoying teas and cakes provided by the BVC Judging started at 12.30pm with County Councillor Martin Storey, Parish Council Chairman Tom Roberts and lifetime Boughton resident Tam Payne climbing aboard the hayride, kindly provided and driven by village farmer Geoff Proctor. Clad in hi viz jackets, and guided by Boughton resident Frank Reid, the hayride toured the village judging the crows on display. This year proved particularly difficult to judge due to the high standard and varied nature of the entrants, and the judges remained in the deliberation huddle for a long time deciding the winners. They were sustained by bacon rolls and cups of tea. Winners in the children’s section were the Chandler & Stacey family’s joint effort called ‘The Campsite’, which included a magnificent 11 scarecrows! Highly commended were Henry & George Simpson, with the help of Mummy and ‘Colin the Gruffalo’ The children received a commemorative mug, a cash prize, a medal, bags of Halloween goodies and a certificate. Winner of the adult section was Kevin & Debbie Fisher for ‘Cannonball Clive’. Highly commended were Andrew & Angela Faherty for ‘Mr Hedges’ The adult winners received commemorative mug, bottle of wine and certificate. A magnificent day enjoyed by all, and the BVC thanks all those who helped to make the day a resounding success. We look forward to the next event in 2017. Boughton Village Caravan
