---
title: "Stoke Ferry parish Council - August Meeting"
date: "2016-10-25"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
---

STOKE FERRY PARISH COUNCIL

Minutes of the meeting held on 10th August, 2016

Attendance: Chairman S Lintern Vice Chairman Mrs J Taylor Councillors Mrs D Clements J Nicholas-Letch Borough Councillor C T Sampson Members of the public 15

1\. Emergency Evacuation

Members and members of the public were advised of the emergency evacuation procedures for the Village Hall.

2\. Apologies

Apologies had been received from Cllr M Leamon

3\. To receive Declarations of Interest from Members on any item to be discussed

Cllr Clements declared an interest in the item referring the Car Scheme

4\. To consider co-options onto the Parish Council

Two letters had been received from local residents asking to be co-opted onto the Parish Council: Mrs Judith Taylor and Mrs Trudy Mann. Their letters were read out to members.

Mrs Trudy Mann

Proposed – Cllr Nicholas-Letch Seconded – Cllr Mrs Clements

That Trudy Mann is co-opted onto Stoke Ferry Parish Council.

All in favour

Mrs Judith Taylor

Proposed – Cllr Mrs Taylor Seconded – Cllr Lintern

That Cllr Mrs Taylor is co-opted onto Stoke Ferry Parish Council

For – 2 Against – 2

The Chairman used her casting vote and Mrs Judith Taylor was co-opted onto the Council

It should be noted that Mrs Judith Taylor will be known as Cllr Judith Lawson in relation to the Parish Council in order to avoid confusion with the current Mrs Janet Taylor.

5\. To agree Minutes of the meeting held on 12th July, 2016

Proposed - Cllr Mrs Taylor Seconded - Cllr Mrs Clements 'That the minutes of the meeting held on Wednesday 12th July, 2016 be approved'

All in favour

6\. Matters arising

Cllr Mrs Lintern gave an update on the recent concerns about the noise from the mill. A representative from 2Agriculture had emailed to advise that boiler had been changed over and would now be run on kerosene which should lessen the noise. Glazwing had also been contacted and reminded that they should not be using the back road to West Dereham. 2 Agriculture would also investigate the low bass noise that is emitted from the mill and report back to the next community meeting.

Dog bin – approval is still being sought from the BCKL&WN

Cllr Nicholas-Letch gave a report on the Neighbourhood Plan. If this was preceded with there would need to be an input from residents and would probably involve employing a specialised consultant to help with the process. It should be noted that there are funds available of up to £15000 to cover this cost.

7\. To receive report on Public Rights of Way (Footpaths/Bridleways)

It has been agreed that previously that Mr Chris Philpott would become the village Footpath Warden and the Chairman wished this to be put on a formal basis and therefore made the following proposition.

Proposed – Cllr Lintern Seconded Cllr Mrs Taylor

‘That Mr C Philpott is the official Footpath Warden for Stoke Ferry’

All in favour

This is a voluntary position.

It was reported that there are only 2 short footpaths left to document and photograph. Information was needed on the ownership of land adjacent to footpaths and therefore it was agreed to contact Andy Wallace of Norfolk County Council Highways to ask if he would be able to supply this information. There are three parts to the footpath project: 1. Ensure the definitive map of PROW is up to date 2. To identify the owners of land adjacent to all footpaths and PROW 3. To identify historic footpaths and have them incorporated within the definitive plan. If foothpaths and PROW are not on the definitive plan by 2025 they will be lost for public use.

The Village Pump has agreed to contribute towards a leaflet, which could be held in local shops, show both residents and visitors all the footpaths that can be explored in the area.

13\. Update on the Website

It was agreed that the Clerk would work with Judith Lawson on the website, as she had previously done the training. It was also agreed to contact Helen Carrier of NorfolkALC who is the IT specialist as there is funding available for Councils to purchase a scanner to help with transparency of the Council’s documentation and accounts.

12\. To discuss Hospital/Doctor Car Scheme

Cllr Nicholas-Letch had given the Chairman and the Clerk a detailed breakdown of the receipts and payments of the car scheme since its inception. It was reiterated that this scheme needed to be completely open and transparent. It was not the wish of the Council or the residents to stop the scheme but perhaps the current way it is administered should be stopped and the Council should look at a new way to take it forward.

15\. To discuss future grass cutting/maintenance within the village

There had been a meeting between Councillors and Ian Burton of CGM (the current contractors for the Cemetery and the Playing Field). Mr Burton advised that he was not aware of any problems, even though it was known that members of the Council had contacted him in the past. Mr Burton advised that he would in future make random checks on the quality of the work being carried out. The saplings which had previously been destroyed would be replaced in November. It was noted that the Council had been paying for work which had not been carried out and therefore rather than have any additional grass cutting (which is not needed) it was suggested that the hedges around the playing field could be trimmed instead. Mr Burton agreed to look into this. The invoices would be re-examined to determine what had been paid for over and above the work that had been done, as it had been shown that up to date CGM were five cuts short. It was agreed that six months’ notice be given to CGM as per the signed contract. There was a full discussion on the future of grass cutting in the village and a decision would have to be made as to whether to employ another contractor or should the Council employ its own maintenance person. This would be further discussed at the next meeting.

Proposed – Cllr Nicholas-Letch Seconded – Cllr Mrs Clements

‘That CGM is given six months’ notice as per the current contract’

All in favour

CGM could not give any advice on how to get rid of the rabbits in the cemetery.

It was agreed that a meeting between Cllr Mrs Mann, the Clerk and the Borough Council should be arranged.

16\. To approve payments of bills

Proposed – Cllr Nicholas-Letch Seconded - Cllr Mrs Taylor

‘That the bills be paid as per the attached schedule with the exception of the one from CGM’

All in favour

17\. To receive correspondence

Bus Shelters – information on the supplying of bus shelters Pollution Moniter – a request had been received from the BCKL&WN to place a pollution monitor on the lamppost situated on the hill All other correspondence is circulated to members 18. To receive information or suggested items to be considered at the next meeting (Councillors/ Public)

Future agenda items: Remembrance Day Christmas Tree Painting of the railing around the garden adjacent to the bus shelter Litter pick

It was noted that the Council strimmer is at Cllr Mrs Clements house: this would be collected.

Borough Cllr Sampson gave a short report on devolution and reminded everyone that they are able to give their comments on the website. He also advised that he would need to give his apologies for the next meeting.

Mrs Mann advised she needed to give her apologies for the next meeting as well.

2Agriculture – concern was raised over the smell from the site

Notice Board – Cllr Mrs Taylor advised that the lock on the notice board had been forced and broken. This had been replaced and the Clerk was given a key.

Street Light –the light outside Mrs Mann’s house was on throughout the day. This would be reported

Roadways – it was stated that roads needed to be 5.5mts wide to allow for two way traffic.

Blocked drains – the drains near 2Agriculture seem to be blocked resulting in an awful smell.

Boughton Surgery – concern was raised that the surgery had been put into special measures. Members of the public felt that the Parish Council should have been informed.

Playing Field – it was noted that the plaque uncovered by Rt Hon Elizabeth Truss MP seemed to have disappeared. The meeting was advised that the post had been pushed over and therefore it was removed and the plaque is currently in the portacabin.

Grass cutting – the grass in Buckenham Drive had been cut but not the car park.

The Bluebell – everyone was advised that the Bluebell is now doing food more regularly. 19. Date and time of next meeting - Wednesday 14th September, 2016 at 7.00pm

Meeting closed at 9.30 pm
