---
title: "Wretton Parish Council Meeting January 2020"
date: "2020-03-26"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "wretton"
---

MINUTES OF WRETTON PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD AT ALL SAINTS CHURCH WRETTON 6TH JANUARY 2020 Present: Cllr David Llewellyn – Chairman, Cllr Mick Peake, Cllr Martyn Cann. Also present: Borough Councillor Colin Sampson and 1 member of the public Public Participation No matters raised 1. Apologies for Absence accepted from: Apologies for absence received from Cllr Ian Mack, Cllr Peter Garnett, Cllr Paul Williams and Cllr Mandy Peake. County Councillor Martin Storey also gave apologies. 2. No Declarations of Interest made 3. Approval of Minutes: The minutes of the meetings held on 04.11.19 and 26.11.19 were confirmed as a true record. 4. Update on matters arising from previous meetings: • It was reported that planning application 19/01865/F, which was the subject of the Parish Council meeting held on 26.11.19, is likely to be refused. The applicant has asked for an extension to allow further information to be provided to support the application but it appears refusal is likely to be recommended by the planning review panel. 5. Reports 5.1 Chairman’s Report • A parish newsletter was not issued prior to Christmas as was hoped. • The Chairman is still working on improvements to the Parish Council website and the Church has been offered a page within the community section. • It was suggested past Parish Council minutes could be digitalised and enquiries will be made. • The Council will consider a document storage/retention policy at the next parish council meeting. 5.2 Clerk’s Report Correspondence passed to Councillors: Relatively quiet time over the Christmas period but of note information has been passed to Councillors re. change of local bus services and of tours to the Materials Recycling Facility at Costessey in 2020. Other regular correspondence received includes Norfolk ALC newsletters and Police newsletters. 2312/03/2020 Cold Calling Zone Cllr. Paul Williams had suggested establishing a No Cold Calling Zone in Wretton. Information has been passed to Councillors and consideration will possibly be given to the idea at a future meeting, if a local co-ordinator can be identified. 5.3 Risk Assessment Update Work has been undertaken on the pedestrian gate to the play area as suggested in the annual play equipment inspection report. Councillors will take a look at the work done before the invoice is settled. 6. Accounts were presented and accepted for payment. Cheques for approval of payment Payments for Jan. 20 2019 Clerks Salary £118.44 SLCC subs £44.00 Street Light Maintenance (Dec. Jan) £38.64 CGM grass cutting £156.00 Bonnetts (play area gate) £42.00 Bank Balances at 29.11.19 Current Account £6252.51 Savings Account £3464.20 Current account holds CIL money of £2196 with another £1441.01 received 28.10.19 Transparency Grant of £1225 has now almost been spent. Approx. £168 remains within the current account 7. Project Updates 7.1 Phone box defibrillator – the project is now felt to be complete. 7.2 Wretton Green “pond” area – Cllr Paul Williams has had most recent input to this project but he was not present to give any update. It was noted however the “pond” area is now looking better than it had been! 8. Budget needs and precept request for 2020/21 Councillors were presented with a current budget position and this was considered in preparation for setting the 2020/21 budget and precept request. It was agreed to set a budget and precept request of £5139. It is expected this will result in a 2020/21 Council tax charge of £35.74 for a Band D property. 9. No Planning Applications received for consultation 10. Other Reports – for information only: • It was noted that the hedge which was removed in Chequers Lane has a replacement notice issued to reinstate the hedge by 29.02.20. The Parish Council would like to see the hedge planted to aid visibility at the adjacent junction. Borough Councillor Colin Sampson was asked if he could investigate whether this would be possible. 3312/03/2020 • Untaxed vehicles parking on the verge is an issue. This has been reported to the appropriate authorities. Colin Sampson was asked to report vehicles and the location to the Police as it is possible to visit Downham Market Police Station to speak directly to Officers.
