---
title: "Stoke Ferry Parish Council November Meeting"
date: "2017-01-09"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

STOKE FERRY PARISH COUNCIL

Minutes of the meeting held on 9th November, 2016

Attendance: Chairman S Lintern Vice Chairman Mrs J Taylor Councillors Mrs D Clements Mrs J Lawson Mrs M Leamon Mrs T Mann Footpath Warden Mr C Philpott Members of the public 12

1\. Emergency Evacuation

Members and members of the public were advised of the emergency evacuation procedures for the Village Hall.

2\. Apologies

The Chairman advised that Mr J Nicolas-Letch had resigned from the Parish Council. This means there are currently three vacancies on the Council.

3\. To receive Declarations of Interest from Members on any item to be discussed

Cllr Clements declared an interest in the item referring to the Car Scheme

4\. To agree Minutes of the meeting held on 12th October, 2016

Proposed - Cllr Mrs Clements Seconded - Cllr Mrs Taylor

'That the minutes of the meeting held on Wednesday 12th October, 2016 be approved'

All in favour

5\. Matters arising

Dog Bin – awaiting licence from NCC Highways. Boughton Surgery – The Chairman read out a copy of a report advising the future running of the Surgery. This implied that there would be no more drop in or outreach surgeries and for appointments patients would need to contact the surgery on the morning they wanted one. Concern was raised that the reduction in the availability of Doctors could affect all patients and it was raised that there was an historic policy agreement which stated the Surgery agreed to have outreach surgeries. It was agreed to ask the CCG (Clinical Commissioning Group) to attend a meeting so that the concerns of residents could be put forward. 2Agriculture – there have been no more reported problems.

6\. To discuss Planning Applications: i. 16/01835/F General Purpose agricultural shed at land west of Woodlands, Greatmans Way There were no objections to this plan. In favour of the plan – 5 Abstention – 1 ii.16/01857/RM Residential development plot 1, land adjacent Hazel Dene, Greatmans Way There were no comments on this plan

7\. To receive report on Public Rights of Way (Footpaths/Bridleways)

A letter had been received concerning bridleway 8. A member of the public had walked the path and had been chased off it and had felt very intimidated. The Chair and the Footpath Warden have since walked this path and had had no problems. It was agreed in a situation like this the Police should be contacted immediately and asked to speak to the landowner.

8\. Update on the Website

Cllr Mrs Lawson advised that the log in details for the website had been changed and therefore she was unable to access the site to enter new details. It was agreed to contact Mr Nicholas-Letch to ask for the amended details, but in the meantime Cllr Mrs Lawson would contact NorfolkALC to see if new login details could be arranged, with only the Clerk and Mrs J Lawson having access to put new items on the website,

9\. To discuss the Car Scheme

As Mr Nicholas-Letch had now resigned from the Parish Council it was essential to have monies held in the Car Scheme account transferred over to the Council. There needed to be a period of time for the transfer of the money as if this was not adhered to then further action would be needed. NorfolkALC could be contacted and if necessary this could be escalated to the Police.

10\. To discuss future grass cutting/maintenance within the village

Grass cutting There was a job specification which had been used previously and this would be forwarded to any interested companies. The replacement of the saplings is ongoing as is the possible provision of litter bins by CGM. It was noted that the brambles adjacent to the Playing Field drive were very overgrown, but it was stated that this should be cut by the Borough Council in December. Handyman Within the public meeting parishioners had agreed that it could benefit the village if the Council employed its own handyman. It was agreed that a job list for a handyman should be made for the December meeting.

11\. To discuss the arrangements for Remembrance Day

Everything was now arranged for Remembrance Day is on Sunday 13th November, 2016.

12\. To begin discussions on Christmas Event including the Christmas Tree

The Christmas event will be held on Sunday 4th December, 2016. Cllr Mrs Taylor had contacted Didlington Nurseries and they would be able to supply a Christmas tree. The tree would be decorated and there would be mulled wine and mince pies for everyone attending. It was agreed that it would be easier to have a CD player with a Christmas Carol CD. Cllr Mrs Taylor would ensure that the words on the Carols Service sheet were the same as the ones on the CD. Cllr Leamon agreed to contact the Academy to see if their school choir would agree to sing at the event. 13. To discuss Carnival Event for 2017

This would be discussed at the January, 2017 meeting.

14\. Section 106 – Members need to consider if they wish to investigate S106 payments which should have been given to village for education and other village amenities

There was nothing to report to this meeting.

15\. To discuss the budget for the preliminary items to be included in the Budget for 2017/18

The Clerk had given members a copy of receipts and payments up to September. 2016 (six months) and a copy of the budget for 2016/17. Members were asked to study the figures and there would be a full discussion on the 2017/18 budget at the next meeting.

16\. To approve payments of bills

Proposed – Cllr Mrs Leamon Seconded - Cllr Mrs Clements

‘That the bills be paid as per the attached schedule.’

All in favour

17\. To receive correspondence

The only piece of correspondence in addition to that emailed was Clerks and Councils Direct magazine.

18\. To receive information or suggested items to be considered at the next meeting (Councillors/ Public)

It was suggested that Planning Decisions should be reported to members at the monthly meeting. A member of the public stated that there should be no public participation during Council meetings and all questions should go through the Chair. The grit bins need to be filled with the onset of winter. It was noted that these had not been filled for the last two years. NCC Highways would be contacted to ensure that it is done this year. The hedge adjacent to 1 Border Road needs cutting. It was agreed that Cllr Mrs Clements would deal with this. There used to be a bench on the playing field, that has kindly being renovated by a local company and is waiting the playing field committee to advise when they want it returned

19\. Date and time of next meeting - Wednesday 14th December, 2016 at 7.00pm. Meeting closed at 9.15 pm
