<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Wereham Parish Council July meeting - September 2014 - Stoke Ferry, Norfolk, UK</title>
        <meta charset="utf-8"/>
        <script src="/js/bootstrap.bundle.min.js"></script>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/bootstrap.min.css"/>
        <link rel="canonical" href="https://www.stokeferry.com/2014/09/wereham-parish-council-july-meeting/"/>
        <link rel="sitemap" type="application/xml" title="Stoke Ferry, Norfolk, UK" href="/sitemap.xml"/>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
        <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary"/>
        <meta name="twitter:title" content="Wereham Parish Council July meeting - September 2014 - Stoke Ferry, Norfolk, UK"/>
        <meta name="twitter:site" content="@stokeferry"/>
        <meta name="twitter:creator" content="@stokeferry"/>
        <meta name="og:title" content="Wereham Parish Council July meeting - September 2014 - Stoke Ferry, Norfolk, UK"/>
        <meta name="og:url" content="https://www.stokeferry.com/2014/09/wereham-parish-council-july-meeting/"/>
        <meta name="og:image" content="https://www.stokeferry.com/images/river-wissey-lovell-fuller.jpg"/>
        <meta name="og:description" content="Includes the Wissey Valley villages of Boughton, Stoke Ferry, Wereham, West Dereham, Whittington and Wretton"/>
        <meta name="description" content="Includes the Wissey Valley villages of Boughton, Stoke Ferry, Wereham, West Dereham, Whittington and Wretton"/>
    </head>
    <body style="background: #eee">
        <header>
            <div class="container">
                <a href="/" title="Home">
                    <div class="row">
                        <picture>
                            <source srcset="/images/wereham-sign-gary-trouton.avif" type="image/avif"/>
                            <img style="width: 100%; height: auto; max-height: 288px; object-fit: cover; aspect-ratio: 125/36;" src="/images/wereham-sign-gary-trouton.jpg" alt="Wereham Sign Gary Trouton">
                        </picture>
                    </div>
                </a>
                <nav class="navbar navbar-expand-md navbar-dark bg-dark">
                    <div class="container-fluid">
                        <a class="navbar-brand d-md-none" href="/">stokeferry.com</a>
                        <button class="navbar-toggler" type="button" data-bs-toggle="collapse" data-bs-target="#navbarNavDropdown" aria-controls="navbarNavDropdown" aria-expanded="false" aria-label="Toggle navigation">
                            <span class="navbar-toggler-icon"></span>
                        </button>
                        <div class="collapse navbar-collapse" id="navbarNavDropdown">
                            <ul class="navbar-nav">
                                <li class="nav-item dropdown">
                                    <a class="nav-link dropdown-toggle" href="#" role="button" data-bs-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
                                        Village
                                    </a>
                                    <ul class="dropdown-menu">
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/category/stoke-ferry/" title="Articles about the village of Stoke Ferry, Norfolk, UK">Stoke Ferry</a>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/category/boughton/" title="Articles about the village of Boughton, Norfolk, UK">Boughton</a>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/category/wereham/" title="Articles about the village of Wereham, Norfolk, UK">Wereham</a>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/category/west-dereham/" title="Articles about the village of West Dereham, Norfolk, UK">West Dereham</a>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/category/whittington/" title="Articles about the village of Whittington, Norfolk, UK">Whittington</a>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/category/wretton/" title="Articles about the village of Wretton, Norfolk, UK">Wretton</a>
                                    </ul>
                                </li>
                                <li class="nav-item dropdown">
                                    <a class="nav-link dropdown-toggle" href="#" role="button" data-bs-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
                                        Year
                                    </a>
                                    <ul class="dropdown-menu">
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2001/">2001</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2002/">2002</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2003/">2003</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2004/">2004</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2005/">2005</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2006/">2006</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2007/">2007</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2008/">2008</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2009/">2009</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2010/">2010</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2011/">2011</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2012/">2012</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2013/">2013</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2014/">2014</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2015/">2015</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2016/">2016</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2017/">2017</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2018/">2018</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2019/">2019</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2020/">2020</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/2021/">2021</a>
                                        </li>
                                    </ul>
                                </li>
                                <li class="nav-item dropdown">
                                    <a class="nav-link dropdown-toggle" href="#" role="button" data-bs-toggle="dropdown" aria-expanded="false">
                                        Parish Councils
                                    </a>
                                    <ul class="dropdown-menu">
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="/category/parish-councils/">Minutes of meetings 2001-2021</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="https://stokeferryparishcouncil.co.uk/" target="_blank">Stoke Ferry Parish Council</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="https://boughtonparishcouncil.norfolkparishes.gov.uk/" target="_blank">Boughton Parish Council</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="https://werehamparishcouncil.co.uk/" target="_blank">Wereham Parish Council</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="https://west-dereham-parish-council.norfolkparishes.gov.uk/" target="_blank">West Dereham Parish Council</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="https://northwoldparishcouncil.norfolkparishes.gov.uk/" target="_blank">Whittington Parish Council</a>
                                        </li>
                                        <li>
                                            <a class="dropdown-item" href="https://www.wretton.org.uk/home/" target="_blank">Wretton Parish Council</a>
                                        </li>
                                    </ul>
                                </li>
                                <li class="nav-item">
                                    <a class="nav-link " href="/broad-norfolk/" title="Translate English text into the Broad Norfolk dialect">Broad Norfolk</a>
                                </li>
                                <li class="nav-item">
                                    <a class="nav-link" href="https://scrapbook.stokeferry.com" title="Stoke Ferry Women's Institute Golden Jubilee Scrapbook 1965" target="_blank">WI Scrapbook</a>
                                </li>
                            </ul>
                        </div>
                    </div>
                </nav>
            </div>
        </header>
        <main>
            <div class="container">
                <article class="col bg-white">
                    <div class="row p-4">
                        <h1 class="fs-3">Wereham Parish Council July meeting</h1>
                        
                        
                            <h2 class="fs-4 text-muted">September 2014</h2>
                        
                    </div>
                    <div class="row p-4 pt-2">
                        <p><strong>WEREHAM PARISH COUNCIL</strong></p>
<p><strong>Minutes of the Ordinary Parish Council Meeting</strong></p>
<p><strong>8th July 2014 at 7.30pm</strong></p>
<p><strong>Wereham Village Hall</strong></p>
<p><strong>Attendance:</strong></p>
<p><strong>Cllr Jo Bruce                            JB        Chair</strong></p>
<p><strong>Cllr Dave Deighton                  DD        Vice Chair</strong></p>
<p><strong>Cllr Gail Koopowitz                 GK</strong></p>
<p><strong>Cllr Brian Bruce                       BB</strong></p>
<p><strong>Cllr Roger Lankfer                   RL</strong></p>
<p><strong>Nicola Cooper                          NC        Parish Clerk (Minutes)</strong></p>
<p><strong>Also in attendance:</strong></p>
<p><strong>Cllr Martin Storey                    MS       NCC</strong></p>
<p><strong>Chris Smith                              CS        CGM</strong></p>
<p><strong>Members of the Public: 1</strong></p>
<p></p>
<table><tbody><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>Action</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>1.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Welcome, Introductions and apologies</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">1.1</td><td width="539">JB welcomed all. Apologies for absence were noted from Karin Newell</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>2.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Minutes of Previous Meeting</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">2.1</td><td width="539">To confirm as a correct record the Minutes of the Annual Parish Meeting and the Annual Meeting of Wereham Parish Council held on 13<sup>th </sup>May 2014 and the Extraordinary Parish Council Meeting held on 10<sup>th</sup> June 2014. An amendment was made to 7.2 of the Annual Parish Council minutes to record that there were 6 in favour and 1 against the motion to replace the streetlights as and when they fail. The minutes were then accepted as a true and accurate record.<div></div><em>Prop. JB 2<sup>nd</sup> DD All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>3.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Resignation of Cllr Phil Norris</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">3.1</td><td width="539">This was formally noted and thanks were minuted for all the hard work and dedication from Phil both for the Parish Council and the other village committees that he has worked on.<div></div><strong>Clerk to send a letter of thanks.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>4.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Formal Notification of a Council Vacancy</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">4.1</td><td width="539">The formal 14 day period of notification of a Casual Council Vacancy will run until 28<sup>th</sup> July. After this period, if 10 electors have formally requested an election then this will be held within 60 days of this notification. If an election is not called then the Council will co-opt to fill the vacancy at the September meeting. It was noted that the previous election for a casual vacancy cost the Parish £1,200 and that electors should keep in mind that the whole Council will be up for re-election May 2015.<div></div><strong>Clerk to progress.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>5.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Declarations of Interest on Agenda Items and Dispensation Requirements</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">5.1<div></div>&nbsp;<div></div>5.2</td><td width="539">No interests were declared.<div></div>&nbsp;<div></div>GK stated that she has sought advice from Norfolk ALC and been advised that she has no interest to declare with regards to the Village Hall.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>6.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Matters Arising </strong><em>Not dealt with elsewhere on agenda</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.1</td><td width="539">Poplar trees – report has not yet been filed.<div></div><strong>Clerk to maintain pressure on this.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.2</td><td width="539">Dog waste bins are with Bonnets but have not yet been installed.<div></div><strong>Clerk to chase.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.3</td><td width="539">Manor House wall. Clerk reported that the planning enforcement case has been reopened on this as she has been advised that the wall formed a separate planning application to the mews houses. She has contact details for the landlords and letters from tenants to support the walls completion.<div></div><strong>Clerk to continue to pursue.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.4</td><td width="539">Property on Western Boundary of playing field. The Clerk sent a subsequent letter to the owners but has not received a response.<div></div><strong>Clerk to contact NALC for legal advice on the compromised boundary. To send copies of the letters and the Heygates agreement.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.5</td><td width="539">Litter bins. The details have not been received from KN. It was agreed that two bins would be required, one on the playing field and one near the pond.<div></div><strong>Clerk to check with BCKLWN re: requirements for location and distance to the road and request the dimension details from KN.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.6</td><td width="539">Garden of Remembrance.<div></div><strong>Clerk to ask KN if she would like to pass the information over for the Clerk to complete.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.7</td><td width="539">Internal Drainage Board membership. The Clerk has spoken to BCKLWN who have advised that they would be willing for RL to use the vacant Council space on the Stoke Ferry IDB.<div></div><strong>Clerk to pursue.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.8</td><td width="539">The Royal Mail details were printed in G4.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.9</td><td width="539">Church Road renumbering, Two votes for renumbering and two votes against were received. GK also stated that she had been approached by a number of residents from the affected houses and they have stated that they are against any change due to the inconvenience of needing to change their address with various other parties. It was agreed that no action to change the numbers would be taken.<div></div><strong>Clerk to send a letter to let residents know and advise changing to a house name if they are concerned about the numbering.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div>&nbsp;<div></div>&nbsp;<div></div>&nbsp;<div></div>&nbsp;<div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.10</td><td width="539">The Play Area Inspection checklist has been created and use of this started in June.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">6.11</td><td width="539">There is now a Wereham Parish Council Facebook page.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>7.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Correspondence Received</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539"><em>7.1&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; </em>Norfolk Association of Local Councils Weekly Updates <em>(All forwarded on to Councillors)</em><div></div><em>7.2&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; </em>Letter from Woodstock Touring Park, Gibbet Lane, giving appreciation of support for Planning Application.(<em> forwarded on to Councillors)</em><div></div>7.3&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Thanks from Village Hall committee for arranging extra grass cut prior to the Village Fayre.<div></div>7.4&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; G4N article ‘Better Broadband for Norfolk programme passes 50,000 premises milestone’ (<em>forwarded on to Councillors).</em><div></div>7.5&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Norfolk Constabulary – Watlington Snap meeting agenda and poster for July meeting and Minutes of May meeting. (<em>forwarded on to Councillors)</em><div></div>7.6&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Emails from two separate residents confirming that they have complained to Royal Mail about the loss of the Post Box on Flegg Green but have been advised that it had to be removed due to structural damage and the current posting facilities meet the guidelines under business and Ofcom regulation.<div></div>7.7&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Highways Rangers – request for specific works.<div></div>7.8&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Email from resident regarding the grassed area between the Village Hall and the main road.’ <em>I know it is cut once a year just before Open Gardens, but would it be possible for it to be cut at least three times (Spring, Summer and Autumn).&nbsp; It would look a lot better, considering it is the 'gateway' to the Village Centre, it doesn't give a very good impression of the area.&nbsp; Several people have mentioned how untidy and messy it looks.’</em><div></div>7.9&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Request from resident to hold a ‘Boot Camp’ on the playing field. See item 8.5.<div></div>7.10&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; NPFA Newsletter and notice of AGM 17/7/14.<div></div>7.11&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Barclays – Confirmation of new signing arrangements,<div></div>7.12&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Norfolk RCC – Information sheet about Complaints Advocacy.<div></div>7.13&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Resignation Letter from Councillor Philip Norris.<div></div>7.14&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Letter from Jane Edwards PCSO with some information about home security products available to buy via Norfolk police.<div></div>7.15&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; FLP Outdoor Play Solutions brochure.<div></div>7.16&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; G4 Meeting dates<em> – (Circulated to Councillors as necessary and available from Clerk.)</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">7.15</td><td width="539">A letter has also been received with regards to the WW1 commemorations planned in the village. There is also a possibility that funding could be secured to professionally clean (sand blast) the war memorial. The Council has been asked to approve this. All agreed that conditional on a reputable firm being used and the letterwork being protected that this could go ahead and were thankful for the offer.<div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> GK All agreed.</em><div></div>The letter also asked Councillors to provide support to the evening. This was noted for consideration by all.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>8.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>CGM Tree Management Plan</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">8.1</td><td width="539">Chris Smith talked through the results of the Tree Management plan as circulated to Councillors. A basic inspection was undertaken looking at condition and long term management. A programme of works has been identified. It was requested that each element should be quoted on by CGM and advice be included on the timeframes of when the work should be undertaken. Chris will return this to the clerk.<div></div><strong>Clerk to add this to the agenda for September’s meeting and seek two additional quotes for this work from Andy Campbell and CP Tree Services.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>9.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Village Hall</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">9.1</td><td width="539">With regards to the transfer of management responsibility for the land registered as NK408732 VG confirmed that it would be in the interests of the Village Hall Committee to take this land on as the village needs are greater than the area available at the Village Hall. It was agreed that the issues around this subject are too complex to discuss at a Parish Council meeting and that a working party would be set up to discuss this separately. This will be held on Tuesday 26<sup>th</sup> August, 7pm at JB’s office.<div></div>&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">9.2</td><td width="539"><strong>Clerk to update the address on title numbers NK408732, NK127127 and NK393387.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> GK, All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">9.3</td><td width="539">The replacement of the gas heaters in the Village Hall was discussed. VG confirmed that they have received a grant of £2,000 from Love Norfolk to help cover the £3,900 bill for this. The Parish Council agreed that the Clerk would investigate if the bill could be paid through the Parish Council and the VAT be claimed back and returned to the Village Hall Committee as the Parish Council’s contribution. This would provide a £650 contribution.<div></div><strong>Clerk to investigate.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> RL, All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">9.4</td><td width="539">GK reported that the Village Hall Committee is meeting regularly in the appraisal of village needs and the build up to the submission of the lottery application. Lots of work is being undertaken and structural surveys on the hall continue to be undertaken to ensure safety.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>10.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Village Management Issues</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">10.1</td><td width="539">The maintenance of the grassed areas between the Village Hall and the A134 were discussed as a result of community enquiries. Highways provide two cuts per year for these areas. It was agreed that the condition of these areas would be included on the monthly play area checklist.<div></div><strong>Clerk to action.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> DD, All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">10.2</td><td width="539">The quotation from CGM to clear the brambles from around the pond from the dead willow to the first of the big willows was discussed.<strong> It was agreed that the Clerk would ask for comparable quotes from Holly Landscapes and CP Tree Services and add this to the September agenda.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> GK, All agreed.</em></td><td width="47">&nbsp;<div></div>&nbsp;<div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">10.3</td><td width="539"><strong>It was agreed that the Clerk would send a letter to Royal Mail and OFCOM providing a photo and complaint about the lack of disabled access to the new post box by the pond.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> DD, All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">10.4</td><td width="539">The condition of the play area and play equipment on the field was discussed.<ul><li>A new surface needs to be planned for:</li></ul><strong>Clerk to contact NPFA to seek advice on best type of flooring, where to go for quotes and ask if there are any grants available.</strong><div></div><strong>Clerk to ask CGM to undertake a moss and algae prevention spray at the time of the last cut of the season and request confirmation of application.</strong><ul><li>The multi sports goals and football goals need repainting. The railings around the pond also need repainting.</li></ul><strong>Clerk to investigate if there are any community service schemes that can be tapped into. DD to look into National Citizenship schemes.</strong><ul><li>Bike racks are bent and unusable.</li></ul><strong>DD to look into this.</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong><div></div><strong>DD</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>DD</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">10.5</td><td width="539">A completed booking form and a copy of insurance has been received to request use of ¼ the Playing Field for a Boot Camp Monday evenings 7.15-8pm throughout the summer. The booking was agreed and a charge of £10 for up to ten weeks used was proposed and agreed.<div></div><strong>Clerk to send a letter of agreement stating £10 for ten weeks charge and advising that access to toilet facilities would need to be agreed separately with the Village Hall committee. Also to let the Parish Council know if there are any instances of dog waste being found on the field.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> GK, All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>11.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Parish Council Management Issues</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">11.1</td><td width="539"><strong>RL to check the number of Street Lamp Posts under the responsibility of the Parish Council and NC to check with AON whether we are correctly covered.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> DD All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>RL</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">11.2</td><td width="539">The Financial Risk assessment was proposed, agreed and signed.<div></div><em>Prop.JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> DD All agreed.</em><div></div>DD advised that documents which need to be kept historically should be scanned and kept electronically as a back up to the hard copy.<div></div><strong>NC to action.</strong><div></div><strong>The boxes of historical documents which need to be sorted through are to be tackled by the Clerk prior to the next meeting where possible and documents which need to be kept taken to the Norfolk Records Office. Additional hours will be funded for this.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> GK All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539"><em>&nbsp;</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>12.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Planning</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">12.1&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Applications received:<div></div>12.1.1&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 14/00773/LDE Application for Lawful Development Certificate for the Existing Use of Land as Residential Garden Land at Rotherfield House,. The Row, Wereham. Response provided to Planning Authority with no objections.<div></div>12.1.2&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 14/00072/TREECA T1 Ash Tree - clearing dead branches and reducing large branches by 35% within Conservation Area. Scillionia Cottage 1 School Lane Wereham King's Lynn Norfolk PE33 9AW. Response provided to Planning Authority with no objections<div></div>12.2&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Planning Decisions received:<div></div>12.2.1&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 14/00237/F, construction of an occupational dwelling, Woodstock Farm, Wereham. Application Permitted.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>13.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Finance</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">13.1</td><td width="539">Accept accounts to July 8<sup>th</sup> 2014 and agree cheques be signed and payments approved:<div></div>&nbsp;<div></div><strong>RECEIPTS FOR PERIOD</strong><div></div><strong>14/05/14 – 08/07/14</strong><div></div>02/06&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £1.26&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; INTEREST<div></div>20/06&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £55.00&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; VAT REFUND FROM CAMPBELL AND SON TREE SERVICES<div></div>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>£56.26&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; TOTAL RECEIPTS</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>DIRECT DEBIT EXPENDITURE FOR PERIOD 14/05/14 – 08/07/14</strong><div></div>14/05/14&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £7.50&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; SLCC MEMBERSHIP<div></div>02/06/14&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £189.60CLERK MAY SALARY<div></div>11/06/14&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £32.18&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; EON STREETLIGHTS<div></div>16/06/14&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £7.50&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; MEMBERSHIP OF SLCC<div></div>01/07/14&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £189.60CLERK JUNE SALARY<div></div>02/07/14&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £31.14&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; EON STREETLIGHTS<div></div><strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; £457.52&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; TOTAL DIRECT DEBITS</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>FOR AUTHORISATION AND PAYMENT 08/07/14</strong><div></div><strong>CHEQUES:</strong><div></div>£20.00&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; INTERNAL AUDITOR<div></div>£20.00&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; NORFOLK PLAYING FIELDS ASSOCIATION<div></div>£566.88CGM LANDSCAPES GROUND MAINTENANCE<div></div>£5.41&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; AON INSURANCE ADDITIONAL PREMIUM<div></div>£250.00CiLCA TRAINING<div></div>£190.40CLERK ADDITIONAL HOURS AND EXPENSES MAY / JUN 2014<div></div><strong>£1,052.69&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; CHEQUES TOTAL</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>Balance as per cash book at 08/07/14</strong><div></div>Business Saver £12,456.03<div></div>Community Account £2,911.90<div></div>&nbsp;<div></div><em>Prop JB 2<sup>nd</sup> GK All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">13.2</td><td width="539"><strong>Clerk to ask Barclays if the Community Account can be a swept account and keep £2,000 in there at all times.</strong><div></div><em>Prop JB, 2<sup>nd</sup> GK, All agreed.</em></td><td width="47"><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>14.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Councillor Concerns and Agenda Items for next meeting</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">14.1</td><td width="539">The trees along the Row need to be pruned to allow large vehicular access.<div></div><strong>Clerk to send a letter to Mr and Mrs Ryan, Mrs Markwell and Mr and Mrs Ratsey.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">14.2</td><td width="539">The Willow Tree overhanging the A134 needs to be cut back as is a Health and Safety issue.<div></div><strong>Clerk to contact Highways.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">14.3</td><td width="539">There are a number of potholes along the Row and the culvert outside Row Cottage needs to be dredged.<div></div><strong>Clerk to report to The Rangers.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">14.4</td><td width="539">The Manor House is in a poor state of repair.<div></div><strong>Clerk to raise this with the Conservation Officer at BCKLWN.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong><em>&nbsp;</em></strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>15.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Public comments / questions</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">15.1</td><td width="539">Cllr Storey provided an update on NCC issues surrounding schools, Norwich Airport park and ride, Healthy Eating campaign, funding to enable Public Houses to offer other services (<strong>Clerk to highlight this to the George and Dragon and VG)</strong>, funding awarded for WW1 commemorative events, funding for the Norfolk museums service, consultation on Norfolk roads and public transport and more information on the incinerator project. This information can be found on the NCC website.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>&nbsp;</strong><div></div><strong>NC</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>21.0</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>Date of Next Meeting –&nbsp; Tuesday 9<sup>th</sup> September 2014, 7.30pm Wereham Village Hall.</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="539"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">Meeting Closed at 9.10pm.</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr><tr><td width="47">&nbsp;</td><td width="539">&nbsp;</td><td width="47"><strong>&nbsp;</strong></td></tr></tbody></table>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p>Confirmed as a true and accurate record of the meeting:</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p></p>
<p>Chair……………………………………………………. Date……………………………………………..</p>

                    </div>
                </article>
                <div class="row p-4 text-muted">
                    Copyright remains with independent content providers where specified,
                    including but not limited to Village Pump contributors.
                    All rights reserved.
                </div>
            </div>
        </main>
    </body>
</html>