---
title: "Stoke Ferry Parish Council - minutes of November meeting"
date: "2018-11-27"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

STOKE FERRY PARISH COUNCIL Draft Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting held on Wednesday 7 November 2018 at 7.00pm in Stoke Ferry Village Hall

In attendance: Cllr Jim McNeill (Vice-Chair) Cllr Daphne Clements Cllr Mandy Leamon Cllr Trudy Mann Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey Cllr Gail Reeve (Vacancy – 1) Helen Richardson (Parish Clerk and Financial Responsible Person)

Public: 5 Also, in attendance: Cllr Colin Sampson, Borough Council of Kings Lynn and West Norfolk Cllr Martin Storey, Norfolk County Council Mr Chris Philpott, Footpath Warden

222/18 Emergency Evacuation Procedures was advised by the Vice- Chair.

223/18 Openness and Transparency Notice was advised by the Vice-Chair. The Parish Council record the meeting.

224/18 To receive apologies for absence Apologies were received and accepted from Cllr Sue Lintern and Cllr Grant Tomkins.

225/18 To receive Declarations of Interest on Agenda Items and Dispensation Requests The Parish Council noted declaration of interest from Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey in relation to item 16 planning application 18/01888/F Retrospective consent for construction of a carport at Poppyseed High Street Stoke Ferry Norfolk PE33 9SF as he owned a neighbouring property. The Parish Council also noted a declaration of interest from Cllr Mandy Leamon in relation to item 8 involving possible play area equipment for the playing field. Both agreed to not take part in discussion relating to this item on the agenda.

226/18 To Approve the Minutes of the Extraordinary Meeting on 26 September 2018 and the Ordinary Meeting on 1 October 2018 The Parish Council approved the minutes of the extraordinary meeting held on 26 September 2018 as a true record, there was one abstention due to non-attendance at that meeting. The Parish Council approved the minutes of the ordinary meeting held on 3 October 2018 as a true record, there was two abstentions in relation to non-attendance at that meeting.

227/18 Clerk’s Report (Inc Matters Arising) 1) Buckenham Drive Grass – Cllr Mandy Leamon and the Clerk will be meeting with Nathan of the Grounds team at the Borough Council on site to discuss grass cutting in this area towards end of November. The Clerk agreed to feedback anything from the meeting to Cllr Colin Sampson. Other Councillors were welcome to also attend. 2) Village Gates – the Leader of the Council had confirmed that after review they were happy for the Parish Council to install wooden instead of plastic gates at the four entrances to the village if positions and gate size are agreed with Highways Manager and installed by an approved technician. The Clerk would be presenting the Parish Partnership funding application for 201920 at the December meeting before the 7 December deadline which would include the gates. The Clerk had arranged to meet with the Highways Manager at the entrances to agreed locations and Councillors were welcome to attend if free. The Clerk will recheck costings of the gates previously agreed due to possible price increases in the last 12 months. 3) The Clerk had assessed Lynn Road and couldn’t see specific properties with bushes that needed cutting back from pathways but if there are any Councilors to let her know. The bushes outside the Bluebell Pub appeared to have been cut. 4) A letter approved by the Parish Council and sent to the Property Department at the Borough Council regarding the Dukes Head on 28 October was awaiting a reply. 5) Factory Manager from the Mill had agreed to cut back overgrown ivy at the walls near chip shop. 6) Lynn Road had now been resurfaced by Norfolk County Council, but Anglian Water was closing the road on 15 November, signs were up outside mill entrance. It was noted that the road repairs would need to be inspected after and reported to highways if insufficient. 7) An update on investigations into pathways FP2 and Romer Drove would be on the agenda for December. 8) BR8 to FP5 had been confirmed as being cut by Norfolk County Council. The Public Right of Way Officer had advised that the current contract involved cutting paths 7,8,9,10 also which get cut twice a year in June and September. He also shared that parts of 7 and 8 were reported as difficult where the contractor could not complete, and they were aware of the reasons for this, with overhanging trees etc. He further advised that the footpaths had received their five-year inspections early summer and the only noted item was a damaged fingerpost. He advised that the one item flagged up for FP2 was considered a low priority. Following a comment that he had thought it may not be used much the Parish Council felt that this was incorrect, and this was frequently used. 9) The Borough Council Planning department had advised that funding for Play Equipment agreed from the Indigo Road Site would be notified to the Parish Council when available. 10) The PCC had advised that following their recent meeting they wished to make the Parish Council aware that the Church would be holding an advent service on the first Sunday in December from 4pm. 11) Following a query from a resident the Clerk confirmed that budget information for 2017-18 had been on the website for some time. 228/18 To Approve: Planting of Hedging Whips in the Stoke Ferry Cemetery Cllr Trudy Mann shared that three Parish Councillors had met with a member of the public who had been successfully obtained 300-400 whips from the Woodland Trust as part of their grant scheme for free and some could be used for hedging in the Stoke Ferry Cemetery. The resident had also had a meeting with a Woodland Trust inspector who had shared that in their opinion the hedge wasn’t too bad and if it could be cleared from brambles it would improve it. There was suggestion of planting in gaps within the current cemetery hedge and in front of where the soils were placed. Cllr Trudy Mann shared that a community planting event was being held on 24 and 25 November and all were welcome. Cllr Jim McNeill agreed to attend the event on behalf of the Parish Council. The Parish Council approved the suggested areas for whips to be planted. Regarding the cutting back of brambles in the current hedge at the front of the cemetery, it was agreed to spend a maximum of £50 and ask the Handyman if he could do this work within the budget and, if not, the Grounds Maintenance contractor.

229/18To Approve: Costs for Movement of Play Equipment to Playing Field Committee It was agreed to defer as the Parish Council hadn’t heard if they had been successful in their bid for the free play area equipment.

230/18 To Discuss: Community Asset Registration Locations within Stoke Ferry The Parish Council had received information from the Borough Council of Kings Lynn and West Norfolk’s website in relation to the registration of land or property within a parish as an Asset of Community Value. The Parish Council agreed that they would register the Bluebell Pub as an asset of community value, the Chair proposed the application, four were in favour, two abstained due to a personal interest and another who lived in a neighbouring property. Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey agreed to complete the form to register the Bluebell Pub and bring to the December meeting for approval. The Clerk agreed to call the Borough Council and seek advice as the property was currently up for sale. The Clerk shared that the registering of community assets can also be part of the Neighbourhood Planning Process. It was agreed to add other possible areas of the Parish that assets could be registered in January.

231/18 To Review: Dog and Waste Bin Provision The Parish Council agreed after discussion that no further waste or dog bins were required.

232/18 To Discuss: Consultation NCC Regarding Children’s Centres A consultation on the review of Norfolk’s Children’s Centres was available on the Norfolk County Council website and the Parish Council had been made aware in correspondence. The Clerk agreed to feedback on the consultation finishing on the 9th November as follows: • Councillors expressed disquiet over the proposed closure • That services provided in the children’s centres were important to rural communities where there was generally less resources and therefore increased urgency in keeping these important services in place. • The services provided helped to alleviate such services such as doctor surgeries. • Children’s Centres provided help to those who need it and people that go to town and find support could be received in a non-judgemental/anonymised way, rather than within smaller communities using facilities such as village halls where this would not necessarily be possible. • It can be a detrimental to services when they are broken up and the benefits of sharing expertise within central hubs and resources can be lost. • When facilities are lost, they are harder to get back.

Cllr Martin Storey shared that out of 53 children centres 46 buildings were in question, he shared that it was hoped that the services would continue and the deadline for response was 9th November. Norfolk County Council would consider all responses received.

233/18 To Plan: The Battle’s Over A Nation’s Tribute and Remembrance Sunday 11th November 2018 Cllr Jim McNeill shared that he had organised the Remembrance service with Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey and Janet Taylor. He shared that it had been felt that it was not now possible to also create a beacon. He shared a booklet for the event based on previous booklets. Cllr Jim McNeill shared that a local history display along with light refreshments was arranged within All Saints Church after the service and all were welcome. Members of the Church would be attending the village as they move through other villages on the day coming to Stoke Ferry just after the service. The Parish Council wished to thank Cllr Jim McNeill, Cllr Sue Lintern and Janet Taylor for their work on the service and arrangements made. The Parish Council confirmed that they were happy with the booklet. Cllr Jim McNeill shared that he would be happy to print the booklet. Cllr Jim McNeill thanked Mally for the decoration of the memorial. Bonnetts had arranged for the posts near the memorial to be straightened and tarmacked back upright, the Parish Council thanked them for arranging this repair and confirmed movement of flower pots for arrangements of the day would be allowable. Cllr Daphne Clements shared that Carol Nicolas-Letch would be bringing poses from the Church and Cllr Jim McNeill advised that he would be contacting her before the day.

234/18 To Plan: Christmas Event The Parish Council agreed after discussion to place the lights on the existing tree and hold the turning on of the lights (instead of 1st December) on Wednesday 5th December at 5 pm, this would be conjunction with carol singers from the school choir it was hoped could attend also by this time. The Clerk agreed to let Andrew know of the revised date and ask if he could arrange to place the lights on the tree and arrange the electric supply. The Clerk agreed to place the event on the website.

235/18 Any Handyman/Norfolk County Council Rangers or Public Rights of Way (Footpaths/Bridleway) Issues The Clerk agreed to feedback to the Borough Council that the accuracy of the weed spraying had not been right, and the quads had been reportedly driving dangerously. The Clerk agreed to forward Cllr Jim McNeill the email from Norfolk County Council regarding a blocked drain outside The Cottage, High Street as they advised there was no identifiable issue.

236/18 To Approve: Revised Retention Policy The Clerk shared an amendment which was agreed by the Parish Council.

237/18 18/01888/F Retrospective consent for construction of a carport at Poppyseed High Street Stoke Ferry Norfolk PE33 9SF - The Parish Council agreed to support the application in respect to the mobility issues.

238/18 18/01842/F Rear and first floor extension at Ferry End House Greatmans Way Stoke Ferry Norfolk PE33 9SZ – The Parish Council had no comments.

239/18 18/01847/RM RESERVED MATTERS APPLICATION: Construction of two dwellings Land SE of The Willows And S of Lambsdale View Greatmans Way Stoke Ferry – the Parish Council noted that this had been received.

240/18 To Receive an Update on the Neighbourhood Plan Update – Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey

The first meeting of the Neighbourhood Planning group had taken place on 5th November and there was around a dozen people in attendance. The group had identified how each attendee could contribute and there was a wide range of skills amongst the group. An administrative team had been identified and Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey would continue to provide updates between the group and the Parish Council. A temporary communication method has been put in place amongst the group, but they reported that they needed to open a bank account, prepare for elections, understand GDPR requirements and other information gathering needs. All attendees had been provided with legal information of the requirements of the role. The group had considered the benefits of including neighbouring parishes such as Wretton and Whittington. The Parish Council would need to release funds to the group if received. There would be a need to an agreed the method of communication with the public and press. The Royal British Legion have identified they would like to be involved. Parishes who have a Neighbourhood Plan already in place had been approached. The project was in stage 2 of the 5 stages required.

The following questions raised by the Parish Council were answered by Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey: • The meetings were minuted; • There would be a website, so the public could review the progress, (not the stokeferry.org website); • Once the Neighbourhood Plan was up and running the funding available would be for administrative costs, funding may be required for the gathering of evidence and should expect advise be needed.

The Clerk shared that the Parish Council would need to approve any changes to the boundary agreed and the Borough Council had suggested a Neighbourhood Planning area also on its website. The Clerk shared that the Parish Council had been correct for itself to approve a designated area at its last meeting as requested by the Council, and in line with regulations amended in 2016.

241/18 To Approve payments of bills and summary of accounts

Payee Payment for Net VAT Total Clerk Clerks Wages and Expenses - Oct 18 279.24 0.00 279.24 HMRC Oct-18 64.40 0.00 64.40 Veolia Cemetery Bins 8.02 1.60 9.62 EON (DD) Streetlights Electricity - Oct 2018 63.18 3.16 66.34 SkyBlu Solutions Historic Research - FP5 and Romer Drove 150.00 0.00 150.00 Norfolk Parish Training and Support Prep for Elections - Clerk Training 11.67 0.00 11.67 EON (DD) Streetlight Electricity 63.18 3.16 66.34 Westcotec Streetlight Maintenance 46.32 9.27 55.59 Mr A Stannard Handyman- Oct 18 24.00 0.00 24.00 Mr Sparkle Grass cutting 303.00 0.00 303.00 SF Village Hall Village Hall Hire 45.00 0.00 45.00 total .

The Parish Council approved the payments for October 2018.

242/18 Urgent items as agreed by the Chairman There were none.

243/18 To Review Forward Agenda Items • Cllr Trudy Mann advised that a member of the public had contacted her about Furlong Road and concerns of road safety of lorries passing down this way as a short cut. They had advised that some residents thought to resolve the situation a one-way system, 20mph limit, or signage warning of the narrowness. Cllr Trudy Mann agreed to contact the Highways Manager about the road and the Clerk agreed to place on the December agenda. The Clerk agreed to do create a note to advise the residents that the Parish Council would be discussing in December if they wished to attend or make contact. Cllr Mandy Leamon agreed to hand deliver the notes to the Furlong Road properties. • The Clerk agreed to check about the filling of Grit Bins with NCC. • The road to the Cemetery was full of weeds where it had been extended. • The grass needed cutting by the steps in the cemetery, it was agreed to add the monitoring of grass cutting to the December agenda. • There was a headstone with wire mesh and wood around it believed to protect the memorial from rabbits. The Clerk agreed to add to the next agenda for discussion. • Cllr Trudy Mann had emailed NCC highways to share with them that the road had been laid very well and felt praise was due. The Clerk agreed to contact them to ask if they could remove the portaloo on the roadside used during the road works. • Cllr Trudy Mann congratulated the Clerk again on the nomination received from Wereham Parish Council in the Clerk of the Year Awards. The Clerk advised that she was due to attend an event in Norwich to mark the nomination.

244/18 Public Participation - To receive information or suggested items to be considered at the next meeting including Cllr Colin Sampson (BCKLWN) and Cllr Martin Storey (NCC), if in attendance

Cllr Martin Storey • Was grateful to hear that highways had done a good job on the Lynn Road and it was always nice to hear that a job had been done quick and proper. • The Fire Service and Police Service consultation had taken place about the services coming together and Lorne Green was currently considering all the views that had been shared, and the decision was being delayed until after Christmas into the new year. As soon as further information was received, he would share. Cllr Storey also said he was on the Fire and Police Panel. • He was also on the Museum Panel which was always receiving awards for the good work they do. The Chair commented that there was a good display at the Kings Lynn Museum about the First World War. • NCC Budgets and cuts were being consulted on. If anyone had any views, they wished to forward to Cllr Martin Storey to do so and he would represent the people’s views on improvements or savings as much as possible. Cllr Colin Sampson • He added praise for NCC Highways for the work done on Lynn Road which was good Public • Member of Public advised of a ‘well done’ message to NCC Highways on response to recent enquiry. Also, a good response received from museums regarding Neolithic and bronze age sites within the village for the Neighbourhood Plan. • A Member of Public advised that the streetlamp near their property was glaring. They commented on whether the Parish Council could discuss the streetlamps in the village. It was agreed to get a working party together to check the lights in the village and look at any possible alterations. It was it agreed to discuss this in January and the Clerk would provide rules and regulations of the brightness of the lights. It was agreed add this item to the January agenda. • A Member of the Public advised that timescales for meetings needed to be added to standing orders. • A Member of public advised that Bonnets had complimented NCC on the work to the Lynn Road, and they also responded to thank them for the thank you.

245/18 To Note date and time of next meeting – Wednesday 5 December 2018 at 7.00pm

Meeting closed at 9.08 pm
