---
title: "West Dereham Parish Council - October meeting"
date: "2015-11-20"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "west-dereham"
---

DRAFT MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF WEST DEREHAM PARISH COUNCIL HELD AT WEST DEREHAM VILLAGE HALL AT 7.30 pm THURSDAY 1 OCTOBER 2015 PRESENT (4 Councillors): - Claire Cann (CC) – Chairman, Paula Kellingray (PK), Pam Walker (PW), Claire Williams (CW). Clerk: - Sarah Thorpe 8 members of the public were in attendance. Papers presented to Councillors: (i) Financial Management Report (spreadsheet); (ii) Expenditure (for approval); (iii) Initial Draft Budget for 2016/17 The Chairman welcomed everyone present and opened the meeting.

Apologies for absence. Apologies had been received from Pam Bullas (PB) who was unwell, Tom Foy (TF) who was attending a work course, Lorraine Hunt (LH) due to family commitments, Cllr Brian Long (County Councillor) who was attending another meeting and Cllr Sandra Squire (Borough Councillor) who was unwell.

Declarations of interest. No declarations were made.

Use of social media and audio recording of meeting. CC asked “Will anyone present be filming, recording, blogging, or tweeting during this meeting?” No member of the public present at this stage advised that they would.

Minutes of the Parish Council meeting held on 3 September 2015. CC confirmed all Councillors had seen the minutes of the Parish Council (PC) meeting held on 3 September 2015. These were agreed as a true record and signed by the Chairman.

Reports. 5.1 Chairman’s Report. 5.1.1 Visit to Frimstone. CC advised that members of the PC, along with the Clerk, had visited the Crimplesham quarry on 22 September. Frimstone had given out plans which showed their proposals for the future of the site. These plans were on display at the PC meeting. A tour of the site had also been given on the day and a suggestion had been made of the possibility of an open day to enable local residents to tour the site. Frimstone plan to submit further planning applications before the end of the year to set out their proposals for the restoration of the Northern quarry and the transfer of all operations to the Southern quarry by the end of 2018.

5.2 Clerk’s Report. 5.2.1 Reply from Norfolk County Council (NCC) regarding incidents on the A134. A reply has been received from NCC regarding the issues raised by the PC on road safety on the A134 during the consultation on the planning application made by British Sugar. The letter was read out: “Thank you for your previous enquiry regarding road traffic accidents on the A134 passed to me by my colleague and I must apologise for not responding to you sooner. Further to previous correspondence, we undertook a vehicle survey at the end of April this year to provide up to date information for the traffic flow on the A 134. This has aided us in making an informed evidence based decision in response to the issues the Parish Council have raised. I have examined the current 3 year Personal Injury Accident (Pia) record for the 3Km section of the A 134 between the Stradsett crossroads and the B1160. This data is collected by Norfolk Police and is current to the end of July 2015. In this period there have been 10 injury accidents recorded, 1 fatal injury and 9 slight. This gives rise to an injury accident rate of 287 Pia/billion Kilometres travelled which is elevated over the national comparison figure for a road of this type (171 Pia/billion Kilometres). Furthermore, it is apparent that a high proportion (50%) of these injury accidents have occurred on a wet road surface. The national percentage of wet weather accidents is 30%. The recorded injury accidents are generally spread out with no particular clusters, however, they have occurred more predominantly between Main Road and Bath Road. There is no particular time of year or day of the week when accidents are occurring more frequently. On a more positive note, the last recorded injury accident was in October 2014, so there has been a 9 month period of safe operation. As the analysis above has established a high accident rate, particularly during wet weather, this winter we will be undertaking some improvements to the carriageway surface by means of water jetting. This process removes excess binder material and helps to increase skidding resistance and improves drainage. I am confident this treatment will help to reduce the proportion of wet weather accidents. I would anticipate that this work should be completed by December, however, due to the nature of the work programme it may be undertaken in the New Year. Please be rest assured that Norfolk County Council takes the safety of road users very seriously and we will continue to monitor injury accidents on the A134. Should additional issues become apparent we will take appropriate action at that time. I hope you have found the content of this letter useful and that it has answered your query, but if you need any further information regarding this please do not hesitate to contact me.” CC noted that the PC had raised concerns about road safety due to the increased traffic that will now occur because of the British Sugar planning application. In view of the fact that NCC state this stretch of road already has an above average incident rate then the PCs original query regarding the need for additional safety improvements for the road still stood. It was also noted that another incident had occurred recently on this road. It was agreed that the Clerk should issue a reply asking for a response to the original request from the PC. 5.2.2 Local Council Award Scheme. The PC has registered to submit an application for the Quality status of the award. This application will need to be made by 1 November and a decision will be received by early 2016. This item will be discussed further under item 10. 5.2.3 Ownership of land off Ryston Road. Ownership of the parcels of land off Ryston Road, which have recently been an issue with overgrown vegetation, has been established and contact will now be made with the owners.

5.3 Handyman’s Report. The former Handyman had installed the remaining dog waste bin prior to his departure from the village. It was agreed that the exact position of this bin may need to be changed. It was noted that dog fouling is an issue on the footpath from The Row to the village hall and it was agreed to mention this in the next village notice.

5.4 Police Report. PK advised that Police Connect had issued a warning to residents regarding heating oil thefts and advised that oil tanks should be kept locked and monitored regularly. It was also noted that at the end of August a catalytic convertor had been stolen from Stoke Ferry. The next SNAP meeting was taking place in Downham Market on Wednesday 7 October. PK advised that she had spoken with the police regarding the incidents on St Andrew’s Close that were mentioned at the last PC meeting and the police had advised that these incidents had not been reported to them. If incidents of this nature had occurred they would have definitely investigated the matter and visited houses in the local area to gather information. PK mentioned an interview that she heard on the local radio regarding budget cuts for Norfolk Constabulary and it had been suggested that there would be less patrols in rural villages as the cuts would mean that the police would focus on the major towns and Norwich, where more crimes occurred. This matter was discussed and it was agreed that it was essential that all incidents of anti-social behaviour are reported by residents as if they are not it gives the police a false indication of the situation. It was felt that if the service was to be cut then the police element of the Council Tax should also be cut. It was agreed that the Clerk should send a letter to the police advising them of the PC’s views.

5.5 Village Hall Report. PK reported that the village hall continued to do well and that lots of bookings and events were taking place before Christmas. Repair work to the front doors had now taken place and paint work was to be touched up in some areas.

5.6 Broadband Report. PW advised that there had been no further update since the last PC meeting. It was reported that some residents seemed to be getting an improved service but this was not consistent across the village. Clerk to contact Karen O’Kane from Better Broadband for Norfolk for an update on the situation as the installation of the superfast broadband should have been completed by the end of September.

5.7 Glazewing Report. Richard Stimson, Compliance Manager, at Glazewing was currently on leave so had not provided a monthly report for the PC meeting. He had advised that work was still ongoing regarding their submission of a variation to their planning permission to bring the permission into line with their environmental permit.

Finance. 6.1 Accounts. Accounts for approval and the monthly financial management report were submitted by the Clerk. She advised that the income and expenditure for August 2015 has now been confirmed, and that estimated figures for September have been inserted based upon invoices received. Expenditure continued to be in line with budget.

Payee Cheque No Net VAT Gross Clerk’s salary, expenses for September 15 – 44 hours 100823 537.25 537.25 Anglian Water – cemetery supply June/Sept 100824 15.85 15.85 CGM Ltd – grounds maintenance for August 15 100825 286.75 57.35 344.10 WD Village Hall – hire for meetings July/Sept 100826 157.50 157.50 Total 997.35 57.35 1054.70 The above payments were considered and approved. Cheques to be signed at the end of the meeting.

6.2 Budget for 2016/17. Copies of the initial draft Budget for 2016/17 had been circulated to all. The Clerk advised that consideration had been given to any changes in expected expenditure on the items that appeared in the Budget for 2015/16. Members of the public were invited to comment on the budget for 2016/17. No comments were made.

6.3 Handyman’s Purchase Agreement. A new Handyman had been appointed and was present at the PC meeting. He did not already have Public Liability Insurance and would need to take this out to be able to carry out the role. The two previous Handymen had already had this cover for other work they carried out. It was recognised by the PC that this would be an additional cost to the Handyman that would mean the hourly rate of pay would be below the minimum wage. It was agreed to make an additional expenses allowance of £10 per month to the Handyman’s contract to address this issue. Councillors agreed to meet with the new Handyman to show him the work that was outstanding in the village.

Cemetery. 7.1 Improvements to the Garden of Remembrance. Three quotations were still needed for the new design before the PC could make a decision. Meetings to be set up to obtain these quotations.

7.2 Woodland Burial. Information is still being considered on this matter and further guidance will be needed before the matter can be considered. It is hoped that this will be available by the next PC meetings.

Parish Assets. 8.1 Purchase of goal posts/hoops for recreation ground. CC advised that the trustees of the Village Trust had been approached by the PC and that two of the three had already confirmed that the £1500 funds could be released to the PC for this purpose.

8.2 Work for Community Payback Unit (CPU). The Borough Council (BC) had advised the PC that it was the responsibility of the PC to maintain the hedging at the recreation ground. It was agreed that the CPU should be asked to clear back the brambles at the site and also carry out some work on the overgrown footpath near Stocks Bridge. PK to meet with CPU to discuss this work along with work at the village hall.

Parish Council policies and documentation. 9.1 Grant Awarding Policy. A draft policy document and application form had been sent to all members prior to the meeting. It was discussed and agreed that this policy was a good idea as well as being required for the PC to meet the qualification of Quality level of the Local Council Award Scheme. It was noted that a provision would need to be made in the Budget for 2016/17 to cover awards under this policy. It was agreed by all to adopt this policy and application form.

Local Council Award Scheme The Clerk advised that she believed that all of the documentation required for the Quality level of the award was now held by the PC. A list of the requirements was read out; it was agreed by the PC that on its website it publishes items 1-10 of the documents that are required, and that it also holds items 11-19 of the documents that are necessary for the award (many of these are also available on the website). It was agreed that the Clerk should submit the application for the Quality Award before 1 November 2015.

Planning. No applications or decisions had been received since the last PC meeting.

Correspondence. 12.1 A letter had been received from a parishioner which referred to anti-social behaviour in the village. CC stressed the importance of all residents reporting any incidents that they witness as it is only by drawing the matter to the attention of the police that they will realise incidents are occurring and that there is a need for action to be taken. When issues are reported to the police they will want to know who the caller is, but they will not pass the caller’s name to the person(s) about whom the complaint is being made. It was agreed to issue a reply to the letter to this effect and also mention this in the next village notice.

Other Business – Any additional reports and items for inclusion on the next Agenda. 13.1 PW advised that she had attended her first meeting of the Stoke Ferry Drainage Board on 9 September and that there was nothing to report at this stage that had relevance to WD. The next meeting was in December. 13.2 Fly tipping incidents had occurred on Basil Road and Station Road. Clerk to report to BC Clean-up team. 13.3 PK advised that a meeting would be taking place on 25 November with regard to expressions of interest in the proposed village open weekend over Easter 2016. 13.4 A pot hole was reported on Church Road (near Hudson’s Garage). Clerk to report to Highways.

The official meeting concluded at 8.30pm, and was opened to the floor for general comment.

Open Forum. It was reported that a theft of apples from a tree had occurred at Willow Farm by a person who had accessed the garden via the public footpath. It was agreed that a letter should be sent to NCC to inform them that this was a consequence of the footpath being reopened. Several HGVs from the same national haulage company had been spotted heading towards Glazewing. It was agreed to ask Glazewing if this was the result of a new contract with the haulage company.

Closure. The Chairman thanked everyone for attending, and final closure of the meeting was at 8.35pm.

Next PC meeting is on Thursday 5 November at 7.30pm with Open Surgery from 7.00pm. Clerk: Sarah Thorpe Email: clerk@westderehamparishcouncil.com Telephone: 01945 430930

Chairman’s signature …………………………………… Date ……………………………
