---
title: "Westminster Diary December"
date: "2016-02-18"
categories: 
  - "village-pump"
---

Westminster Diary It is not every day you meet musicians who have worked with rap artist Tinie Tempah or taken their music on tour across America. But tucked away on the Stevenson Industrial Estate in Thetford the Hideout Café and music studio is the brain child of two music producers Tony Cornwall and Rob Preston who have first-hand experience of life in the global music industry. They have created an impressive film, music and production house; with a café on site serving cakes and coffee, pancakes and baguettes as well as providing a relaxation area ready for budding artists to record their music and songs. It was great to hear about the ambitions to involve schools, youth groups as well as local business in music and film production plus hear about their work with headlining acts from around the world. I very much look forward to seeing how the business grows in the years to come. Another business which has a very significant presence in South West Norfolk is the 2 Sisters Food Group. The Thetford site employs over 500 staff and operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. With a very sophisticated manufacturing process in place the company sources all of its chicken from UK farms. Supplying the major supermarkets, the 2 Sisters group produces nearly a third of the poultry consumed in the UK and is one of the biggest customers for UK farmers. I discussed with staff the value of the Great British label to consumers and this month I launched the Great British Food Campaign with the aim to celebrate the very best in British food across the country and overseas. I want to inspire people everywhere to choose British food for the great taste and quality. The country’s brightest food pioneers like Chef Ken Hom and Leon’s Henry Dimbleby , who are spearheading the food revolution, will drive the campaign to champion our delicious produce with trade missions, food festivals and sharing their knowledge and ideas.
