---
title: "Stoke Ferry Parish Council October 19"
date: "2020-02-19"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

STOKE FERRY PARISH COUNCIL Draft (Until approved at the following meeting) Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting held on Wednesday 2 October 2019 at 7.00pm in Stoke Ferry Village Hall

Present: Cllr Sue Lintern (Chair) Cllr Daphne Clements Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey Cllr Mandy Leamon Cllr Trudy Mann Cllr Jim McNeill (Vice Chair) Cllr Gail Reeve Cllr Donna Stocking Cllr Janet Taylor Helen Richardson (Parish Clerk and Financial Responsible Person)

Public: 2 Also, in attendance: Chris Philpott, Footpath Warden

222/19 Emergency Evacuation Procedures was read by the Chair.

223/19 Openness and Transparency Notice - The Parish Council record the meeting. The Chair notified the public of this. The Chair also advised that any aggressive or abusive behaviour towards members of the Parish Council, staff or members of the public will not be tolerated. If this happens you will be asked to leave and if necessary, the meeting will be suspended.

224/19 Apologies for Absence - Received from Cllr Colin Sampson and Cllr Martin Storey.

225/19 To receive Declarations of Interest from Members on any item to be discussed Cllr Sue Lintern declared that Item 11 Bridge Road Dog Waste Bin placement in the form of an ordinary interest and not a pecuniary interest.

226/19 To approve the Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting 4 September 2019 The minutes of the Ordinary meeting held on 4 September 2019 were proposed for approval by Cllr Janet Taylor, seconded by Cllr Mandy Leamon, two abstained (Cllr Donna Stocking and Cllr Jim McNeill as they were absent) and seven were in favour.

227/19 Matters Arising from the Minutes of the Last Meeting (And Clerks Report)

\- Abandoned car at Buckenham Drive had been reported to BCKLWN. - NCC had been notified of drain covers which need repair and await action outside the village hall. - Remembrance Sunday items ordered for collection on 5th November by the Clerk with the Royal British Legion. - The Clerk had reported Bridge Road to NCC for a highways inspection as it was reportedly breaking up and splitting. - The Factory smells had ceased since the last meeting, but a letter would still be sent to notify them of the recent occurrence. - Furlong Road Wall Update from NCC from the Highways Services Manager – NCC had met with their legal advisors and now establishing the most appro-priate line of action available to them. They anticipate the use of 156 of the Highways Act which is ‘executive such works of repair, protect removal or en-closure as will obviate the danger’. Though this was yet to be confirmed. - The Whittington Garage had advised the Clerk that the Post Office Application they had submitted had been approved and they awaited further information and instruction, there was not known timescale at this time. They agreed to contact the Clerk should there be any further update. Planning Applications (no PC consultation received) 19/00080/TPO 2/TPO/00208: Lime, Horse Chestnut, Lebonees Cedar and Yew - Take out the dead wood and do any other trimming to make them safe Homeleigh Wood High Street Stoke Ferry PE33 9SF Xmas Arrangements – The Church advised their service was on 1st December, first Sunday of Advent. The school could not confirm regarding Christmas Carols until nearer the time. Cllr Janet Taylor advised that the tree needed to be about 8ft. Cllr Donna Stocking agreed to ask someone she knew. A poster for the Santa Challenge was ready for circulation. Boughton Road Overgrown Hedge – The path was being obstructed and the Clerk agreed to write to the resident to ask them to cut it back. Bridge Road Hedge – This had now been cut.

228/19 Communication to the BCKLWN Planning Department The Parish Council had written a response following a letter received from Pegasus via the BCKLWN following the Parish Council’s extraordinary meeting. The Chair advised that their letter was concerning to the Parish Council and it was felt that the Parish Council needed to issue a response to the BCKLWN so they had time to consider it prior to the BCKLWN Planning Committee meeting to be held on 7th October. The Chair advised that Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey had drafted a response that had been emailed to all Councillors for comments and approval to send, amendments were made, and the response was sent to the BCKWLN. The Chair advised that the letter was in response to the main points made at the extraordinary Parish Council meeting regarding access points and the historical buildings. The Chair advised that the Parish Council didn’t vote or receive concerns about the two fields to be built on at that meeting held in August. The Chair advised that the Parish Council’s view was along the lines of the letter that had been sent to the BCKLWN and anything outside that would be a personal view. Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey agreed to attend the Planning Committee on 7th October on behalf of the Parish Council and to address the access and historical buildings issues. Cllr Jim McNeill and Cllr Janet Taylor advised that they were hoping to attend to support Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey. The Parish Council agreed that Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey share an aerial photo with the BCKLWN Planning Committee of how the site was before the factory had been built in the village prior to the meeting, Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey agreed to action. As agreed by the Parish Council the Clerk agreed to confirm attendance and speaking time for Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey to the BCKLWN on the mill site only and not the storage site.

229/19 Mill Planning Application: 7.i To discuss the PC taking independent legal advice as to the status/ownership of Footpath 17 The Parish Council discussed whether to seek legal advice on the matter to establish the legal ownership of the path. Cllr Jim McNeill advised that a local solicitor had provided him with a cost of £160 though this was an outline cost only, the Clerk provided a quote from NP Law on their membership fee covering up to 10 hours which was £400, Cllr Jim McNeill agreed to seek a third cost from a solicitor firm. Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey proposed that the Parish Council seek legal advice to establish the ownership of the path up to a budget of £300, seconded by Cllr Sue Lintern, all were in favour.

230/19 Mill Planning Application: 7.ii To discuss the Parish Council’s recent letter of application to the Borough Council for the transfer of ownership of the land behind Buckenham Drive to the Parish Council The Clerk agreed to chase up the communication to the BCKLWN regarding ownership as no response had been received.

231/19 To Update on the Parish Council’s Neighbourhood Plan process

Neighbourhood Plan Working Group

Meeting with Alex Fradley, Planning Policy Officer KL&WN Borough Council Five members of the group attended. There are now 14 members of the Working Group.

Alex Fradley provided: • A brief overview of what is involved in a developing a Neighbourhood Plan (NP) and the lev-el of support we will receive from BKL&WN Council Officers and the genuine political will of Borough Councillors who support the creation of NPs • The procedures for applying for Central Government Grants • An outline the procedure for recruitment and appointment of a NP consultant • Information on what is involved in a Sustainability Appraisal/Strategic Environmental As-sessment • Positive feedback on the viability of the 2-year DRAFT Timeline the Working Group had de-veloped • An update on the Borough Council’s position on climate emergency planning and how that might be incorporated into an NP. He explained that the Borough Council is taking it very se-riously. He expanded further to say that whilst they have yet to declare a climate emergency, they are actively working with Extinction Rebellion locally and tackling climate change it is second highest on their list of strategic priorities. • Finally, Alex informed us that, at the end of the process, the village-wide referendum on the NP document needs only to passed by 50%+ of the votes cast.

It was agreed • To continue to advertise for and approach other residents/interested parties who wish to join in our work • To identify potential policy areas which different sub-groups, once established, can take for-ward • To start mapping those plots in the village that are ‘common land’ • To start mapping the location and ownership of plots that have outline/full planning permis-sion but where building work has not started • To contact two identified Norfolk Parish Councils that have carried out Neighbourhood Plans meet with them and start to shortlist potential consultants to assist our work • To ask the Parish Council to allocate an agreed sum of money in the 2020-21 budget for the work of developing the Neighbourhood Plan • To start the application for Government Grants to complete the Neighbourhood Plan • To identify and cost a Consultant who would be commissioned by the Parish Council to pro-vide guidance and direction

Future Working Group Meetings These will be held once a month, possibly prior to the monthly Parish Council Meetings

In response to queries raised by the Parish Council the following responses were made: - The Working group consists of three original Councillors Cllr Sue Lintern, Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey and Cllr Jim McNeill who was Chair of the Working Group. Cllr Trudy Mann has now joined. There were three other members of public in addition in the working group and others had indicated interest in involvement on specific tasks. The meetings were accessible for those who Councillors to attend. - The Parish Council will continue to receive reports and minutes from the working party meetings. - Three Consultants had been approached for costings; one was unable to submit an application due to current work commitments but two had submitted information. - There had been an ad in the Village Pump regarding the Working Party and the Plan, there had been an additional ad expanding on what was involved. The Chair advised that over a year ago the BCKLWN presented to the village on the creation of a Neighbourhood Plan and some members of public attempted to start a Neighbourhood Plan, but at that point it failed , so now it is hoped that in time people may start to join and take interest again as it’s work starts the phase of engaging with local residents. - A specific notice board regarding the Neighbourhood Plan could be placed in the village. - The public needed to understand that the Neighbourhood Plan will set rules around planning scope in the village and ultimately, they get to vote on its approval; their input is very important. - People may also wish to get involved depending on the topic that might be covered at any specific time. - A page was needed for the Neighbourhood Plan on the website. The Clerk agreed to investigate. Any images of information would be added to the website by the Clerk. - Increase in the communications with the public will come later when there are village-wide consultations. - It was agreed the Chair of the Working Group could poste update information on Stoke Ferry Market Place Facebook page.

232/19 To Approve the Grounds Maintenance Quotation Paperwork The paperwork had been amended since comments at the previous meeting. There was check list against an agreed schedule in the year, Cllr Mandy Leamon agreed to monitor and bring to the meeting to be reconciled with invoices. The BCKLWN advised that if the Parish Council took on any of their grass cutting responsibilities it would be a permanent arrangement and couldn’t be passed back. The Parish Council would be responsible for those areas and there was concern that it would put a lot of liability on the Parish Council. The contract now had wording around extra cutting within the village as required to cover these areas, it was agreed that this was a better approach. The Clerk agreed to advise Nathan that the Parish Council does not wish to take on the grass cutting that the BCKLWN does, all agreed. All agreed to approve the paperwork as circulated. The Clerk would take forward and send out to contractors.

233/19 To Discuss and Approve Parish Partnership Fund Bid 202021 The following ideas had been brought forward as potential funding options: - Village Map – information is now in village pump asking for artists to come forward, an estimate for the artwork was approximately £1600. - Perch seating – An estimate from a local contractor had been received and the cost was quoted as £395 plus VAT per seat being 100x50, It was felt there is a need for residents to be more comfortable while waiting for buses. - Finger Post Badges on the public right of ways – A quote for badges on all the finger posts on the village public right of ways would be £660 corresponding to the footpath walks booklet.

Final quotes would be obtained upon successful bids the following financial year but submitted as part of the application which had a deadline of early December 2019. The funding was half funded by Norfolk County Council Highways and the other half from the Parish Council. It was agreed to try and tie in all the ideas into one bid. It was hoped the project would attract more walkers in the village as well as visitors. It was agreed to attach the walks booklet to the application. The Clerk would be able to submit the application when costs for the map was quantified, Cllr Trudy Mann agreed to forward when received. (I thought we’d agreed/discussed not submitting the ‘perch seating’ but to pay for it out of existing funds; Janet’s quote was for around £330 +VAT

234/19 To Approve Placement of Dog Waste Bin and its Collection – Bridge Road There was discussion regarding land ownership of a proposed area on Bridge Road. It was proposed by Cllr Janet Taylor for the Clerk to check with Highways on the placement of the dog bin on Bridge Road near a warning triangle, seconded by Gail Reeve, 7 were in favour and 2 abstained.

235/19 To Approve Amendments to Financial Regulations and Risk Assessment Document Amendments were circulated with in a report to raise the figure for obtaining estimates to be £500 up to £3000; between £3,001 and £5000 would require quotes and anything over £5001 would require sealed tenders. The word strive had been replaced with endeavour in terms of obtaining three estimates. Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey proposed the amendments as presented, seconded by Cllr Jim McNeill, all were in favour.

236/19 To Approve Councillor Training Councillor training at £60 per Councillor of those who wished to attend was approved.

237/19 To Approve 2020 Meeting Dates The dates as circulated were agreed by all, the followed the current format.

238/19 To Approve Website Hosting Contract The Council had received the contract for the next 12 months with the current provider as agreed, the agreement was approved and signed by the Chair.

239/19 To Discuss and Approve Change of Banking Provider The Council received a report on the matter from the Clerk regarding changing banking provider that included all considerations needed. The Clerk advised that they were more tailored towards the Parish Council’s needs in terms of financial regulation and authorisation, and the appendix to the report contained many recommendations from numerous Parish Councils who had experienced the same issues with the current provider. Cllr Jim McNeill also pointed out that Unity Trust Bank is also an ‘ethical bank’. The change of banking provider from Barclays Plc to Unity Trust Bank was proposed to Cllr Kit Hesketh-Harvey, seconded by Cllr Janet Taylor, all were in favour.

240/19 To Approve: Payments and Accounts Reconciliation to Date

Payments presented were proposed by Cllr Daphne Clements, seconded by Cllr Donna Stocking, all were in favour. The Council had been emailed a copy of the Cashbook reconciled as above.

The Clerk agreed to contact the Handyman to ask why there had been no timesheet for September. The Clerk agreed to ask the Handyman to weed the war memorial.

241/19 To Discuss First Draft Budget and Precept 2020/21 The Clerk presented the draft budget that would be discussed again in November and December before final approval in January. Amendments were noted to be represented in November.

242/19 Urgent Matters – Chairman • Fen Song were returning to the Village Hall with a Pantomime on 20th December. • The Chair advised that a resident had contacted the Parish Council wishing to put their name down for land suitable for an allotment. The Chair advised that there was no known land suitable, but the Parish Council would register their interest and if anyone else comes forward the Parish Council will consider. The Clerk agreed to advise the resident that there were allotments at Northwold.

243/19 To Receive items of concern & matters to be included on the next agenda from the Parish Council and note forward items • Councillors discussed locations of charity land in the village. • Village Sign Update: An A4 brass plaque with two lines of text would be £93.50 plus VAT and it would be possible to add a picture to go on the back of the village sign. It was agreed that a plaque on the back may not work with the designs currently there. It was felt that there may be artists that could paint the back of the sign replicating the picture on the front. Cllr Jim McNeill agreed to seek an artist who may be interest and costs and discuss further at next meeting. • The Clerk agreed to add on the next agenda ‘Horticulture Report’, regarding purchase of trees in the cemetery. • The Clerk agreed to check light ownership at Indigo Road. There were three lights out towards the end of the road. • The Clerk agreed to investigate risk assessments in terms of Christmas Tree lights.

244/19 Cllr Colin Sampson (BCKLWN) and Cllr Martin Storey (NCC), if in attendance There was none.

245/19 Adjourn the meeting to allow for public comments The meeting was adjourned.

246/19 Confirm the Date of the Next Meeting – Wednesday 6 November 2019 at 7 pm, Ordinary Meeting of the Stoke Ferry Parish Council This was agreed.

247/19 EXCLUSION OF PRESS AND PUBLIC The Council to pass a resolution excluding the press and public from the meeting in accordance with Section 1(2) of the Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960 by reason of the confidential nature of the business to be transacted. To discuss any urgent HR issues, Contracts or Legal Proceedings. To discuss HR related topic and Contract related topic. There was no discussion required.

The meeting closed at 9.45 pm
