---
title: "Boughton News - May"
date: "2015-05-20"
categories: 
  - "boughton"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

Boughton Cricket Club News April 2015 Boughton's cricket season is here. And what a season it promises to be because we have made some big changes this year. We now have far more fixtures than ever before. We have new teams to play in Downham Market and Castle Rising. We have our old rivals in Jesus College, Gooderstone and East Rudham to defeat. Even more excitingly, we have established a very small league with our friends at Gooderstone and East Rudham. All three Clubs will play each other twice and there will be a winner and some form of a cup and presentation/social event. Next year, we hope to entice one or two other teams to join us and form a good, old fashioned Sunday League. We will also try to fit in a couple of exciting weekday evening BoughtonBash T20 matches during the early part of summer to add a bit of fun to the season. We have our warm up indoor nets session on 12th April at Downham Market Sports Centre from 10am-12noon and our first and only warm up game is on 19th April at Mundford, starting at 2pm. Our other fixtures are as follows: 19th April Mundford (A) 17th May Castle Rising (A) 31st May Downham Market (H) 7th June East Rudham (A) 14th June Castle Rising (H) 21st June Farcet Fen (H) \[TBC\] 12th July Gooderstone (A) 19th July Jesus College, Cambridge (A) 26th July Downham Market (A) 2nd August East Rudham (H) 23rd August Gooderstone (H)

You may remember that during 2014 the BCC committee made the decision to try and raise funds to provide a modest pavilion and changing facility at the ground in Boughton and to this end a planning application was made as a starting point. I am delighted to say that planning was passed in November 2014 to enable the project to progress. The fundraising has now started with a grant application having been made to Sport England and in the coming weeks the club will making its own fundraising efforts in addition. The pavilion would be of traditional timber construction and will make a beautiful addition to what is already a splendid environment in which to play cricket. In other news, last year the club purchased a new mobile net for practice and we will be arranging more regular net sessions for this coming season. Please email if you are interested in attending these sessions or playing for the club and we will put you on the mailing list. Otherwise look out for other dates and fixtures in G4N as we will update the fixture and nets list throughout the season. We would love to see you at any of the fixtures or net sessions as a player or spectator and if you fancy getting involved please call me on 07768 807534 or e-mail theoldstablesboughton@btinternet.com. You can also get more information on our new website www.boughtoncricketclub.co.uk The club is open to all ages and abilities so if you fancy having a go or resurrecting your career please feel free to contact us- There is plenty of equipment available so don’t worry about that and I look forward to seeing you very soon.

Steve Short Chairman
