---
title: "Wretton Parish Council - November meeting"
date: "2017-02-02"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "wretton"
---

1321/12/2016 MINUTES OF WRETTON PARISH COUNCIL MEETING HELD AT THE CHURCH MONDAY NOVEMBER 7TH 2016 Present– Cllr David Llewellyn - Chairman, Cllr Martin Cann, Cllr Mick Peake, Cllr Mandy Peake, Cllr Bill Whitmore, Cllr J Wyett. 2 members of the public 1. Apologies for Absence received; Cllr Ian Mack. Borough Councillor Colin Sampson also sent apologies. 2. No Declarations of Interest made 3. The Minutes of the meeting held on 12.09.16 were agreed as a true record. The minutes of the meeting held on 03.10.16 will be agreed at the next meeting of the Parish Council. 4. Matters Arising from previous meetings  White gates It is hoped speed limit signs can be mounted on the white gates recently installed.  Vehicle Activated Speed (VAS) signs A SAM2 sign will be ordered and Cllr Bill Whitmore has volunteered to receive the sign.  Odour from sewerage system The Chairman met with a representative from Anglian Water and has been informed that pumps were not working correctly and therefore this could have resulted in smell emanating from the system in Wretton. Dosing of the system may also not have been accurate and the problem should now be resolved. Nothing further has been heard from the Environment Agency regarding discharge into the ditch by the Red Lion and this will be followed up. 5. 5.1 Chairman’s Report  The Chairman and the Clerk met with Marcus Glover regarding the Parish Council Grounds Maintenance contract. An amended contract has been received by the Chairman which will now be signed. To avoid damage by the strimmers the contractors will in future not strim around the wooden posts of the play equipment or along the fence line but will spray the areas instead. It was agreed final payment of the year would now be made to the contractors.  The Chairman and Clerk also met to look at management of the Parish Council website. It is planned to modify the website slightly to allow easy upload of documents to assist the Council to meet obligations of the Transparency Code. 2321/12/2016 5.2 Clerk’s Report The Clerk had nothing to report as items would be covered on the agenda. 5.3 Risk Assessment The report from the Annual Play Equipment Inspection had been circulated to Councillors. It was agreed a quote for the suggested maintenance to one piece of equipment will be sought from the firm that previously carried out some repair to the equipment. All other risks were noted as low and will be monitored. Fencing will be repaired and the Chairman offered to adjust the gate to the play area as suggested. 6. Accounts were presented and accepted for payment. Cheques for approval of payment SJ Scarrott salary £118.44 SJ Scarrott poppy wreath £16.50 K & M Lighting £35.04 J Wyett - wood £9.83 BCKLWN play equipment inspection £84.00 CGM £630.00 Financial position @ 31.10.16 Community Account Balance £2120.17 Business Saver Account (1) £1.11 Business Premium Account £7289.49 Business Saver Account (2) £0.36 7. Correspondence All correspondence received has been passed to Councillors electronically. 8. No Planning applications received for consideration 9. 2017 Budget Councillors were presented with suggested figures for the 2017 budget and consideration will need to be given to what possible projects the Council may wish to finance in the next financial year before any decision regarding the precept request is made. This will be an agenda item again for the January meeting of the Parish Council. 10. Response to correspondence received from the Campaign for the Protection of Rural England (CPRE) It was agreed that the Parish Council would sign the pledge as requested by CPRE Norfolk. The pledge states that the Council supports CPRE Norfolk in its campaign aimed at ensuring that no new sites are allocated for house building in revised local plans to 2036 until all existing allocations in current core strategies have been developed. 11. Defibrillator for the phone box It was decided this item would be an agenda item again for the January meeting of the Parish Council when it is hoped Cllr. Mack would be present. It was again suggested the phone box could be used as an information point. 12. Neighbourhood Plan It was decided this item would be an agenda item again for the January 3321/12/2016 meeting of the Parish Council when it is hoped Cllr. Mack would be present. Information relating to Neighbourhood Planning will be posted on the Parish Council website. 13. Further Reports • It was noted the next meeting of the Parish Council would be held on January 9th in All Saints Academy.  Highways are aware of the missing 40mph sign and that the 40mph sign on Fen Road is worn. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION  It was queried as to whether it is legal for someone to be a member of more than one Council. Chairman’s Signature……………………………………… Date……………
