---
title: "The Diary of Emerald Green"
date: "2011-08-27"
categories: 
  - "village-pump"
---

Ah, I’ve just been reading all my previous diary entries, it’s nice to go back to the past and think how you must have felt back then.Recently I’ve been looking back to my past quite a bit. I don’t know if you’ve ever heard of them, but when i was younger i used to love a band called S club 7. It was my dream to meet them and the black guy in there his name was Bradley, i had a crush on him, as you do, when you are that age. This week I’ve been pretty lots for things to do so I’ve been listening to their albums it brings back so many childhood memories of playing Barbies with my friends or brats as they were (they were so much cooler, because they had no feet, ha-ha) I guess it’s sort of like when my granddad says to me “back in my day” which is a cliché we know all grandparents say at some point. The difference is for him, he has longer to look back to (maybe that’s why he says it so often). My grandma once said to me; “don’t ever regret what you’ve done in life because all of those thing have made you the person you are today”. I know from what my dad has said that my Nan has quite a dark past but i really admire the way that she doesn’t regret any of it. When I’m old i want to be like her, and still be with my husband of 30 years. 30 years is a long time, older than me even, that makes me think i am so young, but as I’m coming up to sixteen in several months makes me feel like life is passing me by. I said this to my mum and she just laughed. I don’t know maybe I’m being overdramatic, but where does the time go? Last time i looked i was sitting with my friends playing with the Brats. That sounds like a mother thing to say, but take this for example, when i go back to school in September i will be in year 11 which is the last year, I then have to make the decision whether i want to go to sixth form or to college. Now to me that is a massive decision and i don’t think I’m ready to make it. I’m going to go for a run, I’ve decided, now that’s a decision i am capable of making. Write Soon x
