---
title: "Wretton Parish Council Meeting August"
date: "2021-01-20"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "wretton"
---

1227/10/2020 MINUTES OF WRETTON PARISH COUNCIL VIRTUAL MEETING HELD ON AUGUST 24TH 2020 Present: Cllr David Llewellyn – Chairman, Cllr Martyn Cann, Cllr Peter Garnett, Cllr Mandy Peake, Cllr Mick Peake. 1. Apologies for Absence accepted from: Apologies received from Cllr Ian Mack and Cllr Paul Williams. Apologies also received from Borough Councillor Colin Sampson and County Councillor Martin Storey. 2. No declarations of Interest made 3. The minutes of the virtual meeting held on 06.07.20 were agreed as a true record. Minutes will be signed once the Council can meet physically. 4. Reports (including updates from matters raised at the meeting on 06.07.20) 4.1 Chairman’s Report • Potholes reported by Lime House Drove and in Fen Drove. • Oil has been dropped by a lorry on the road by Limehouse Drove. This was eventually dealt with by the company responsible for the lorry. • The Chairman suggested electronic storage for the Parish Council could be achieved either via an £8.00 per month subscription to drop-box or through using Office 365 and creating a shared folder in One Drive. As the Parish Council already pays a 365 subscription One Drive will be trialled. 4.2 Clerk’s Report At the last PC meeting it was agreed to contact NCC Highways with the following concerns: 1. Low Road in Wretton is considered to be hazardous in that cars speed along it and vehicles park dangerously. Parking on the verge continues to create a hazard by Fendick’s Cottages but vehicles now seem to park in more places along the road even though there are blind bends. With the new housing along this road it was hoped the speed limit could be lowered. Previously the Parish Council has been told this will not happen as the criteria to lower the speed limit was not being met. NCC Highways has been asked to provide a copy of the Speed Management in which this criterion is set. 2. Concern was also raised regarding the parking of vehicles in front of the Old Red Lion, which hampers visibility when trying to pull out of Church Road and along Low Road. The Police are also aware of these concern about inconsiderate parking and have asked at what times parking is considered to be a problem. 3. The West Dereham Road, coming into Wretton, floods in heavy rain due to the fact that the verge and grups are a higher level than the road surface. Correspondence of note is forwarded to Councillors which has included regular updates from Norfolk ALC and a response from Borough Council Jim Moriarty regarding the Planning Sifting Panel and Parish Councils. 2227/10/2020 Concern has been raised regarding a new access created into a field along Field Lane. Councillors felt this has been created as previously there was no proper access. It was noted that grave markers damaged by the grounds maintenance contractor have still to be replaced as was agreed. 4.3 Risk Assessment Update The play area and equipment on Church Road, Wretton had its annual safety inspection on 9/7/2020, arranged through the Borough Council. There were a couple of findings reported back to Wretton PC: 1. The shelter was flagged for severe rot in the timber and given a moderate risk score of 12 out of 25. 2. The toddler climber with slide also received a score of 12 moderate risk for severe timber rot on the steps. The Parish Council will continue to monitor the identified risks. Covid -19 regulations relating to the closure of play areas have now been relaxed and it was agreed the Wretton play area will now be unlocked so it can be used again. 5. Accounts were presented and accepted for payment. Cheques for approval of payment Clerk’s salary £118.44 K & M Lighting Services x2 (streetlight maintenance) £38.64 CGM grass cutting (12.06.20, 29.06.20, 09.07.20, 27.07.20) £372.00 West Norfolk Web Design hosting £55.00 HMRC PAYE £44.40 Finance – @ 31st July 2020: Current Account £8721.45 Business Premium Account £3468.08 6. Planning Applications: No applications received for consultation. 7. Other Reports – for information only: No further reports offered. Date of next virtual Wretton Parish Council meeting: November 2nd 2020 @7.30pm. Public Participation - No members of the public present Chairman’s Signature……………………………………… Date……………
