---
title: "Wretton Parish Council - May meeting"
date: "2017-09-05"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
  - "wretton"
---

Present– Cllr David Llewellyn - Chairman, Cllr Ian Mack, Cllr Mandy Peake, Cllr John Wyett, Cllr Bill Whitmore. 6 members of the public

1\. Election of Chairman It was proposed and seconded that Cllr D Llewellyn should remain as Chairman. With no other nominations Cllr Llewellyn was duly elected.

Chairman signed his Acceptance of Office.

Apologies for absence accepted from: Cllr Martyn Cann, Cllr Mick Peake , Martin Storey – County Councillor.

4\. No Declarations of Interest made.

5\. Election of Vice-Chairman It was proposed and seconded that Cllr Mick Peake should remain as Vice-Chairman. With no other nominations Cllr Peake was duly elected.

6\. The Minutes of the meeting held on 06.03.17 were agreed as a true record.

7\. Matters arising from previous meetings SAM2 sign now being used and HGV signs erected at Wretton Row. It is hoped 40mph signs will be placed on the white gate at the entrance to the village to replace the sign which has been missing for some time. Pot holes still need to be repaired at Fen Road. Road signs around the parish are still in need of cleaning.

8\. Reports 8.1 Chairman’s Report Having given a report during the Annual Parish Meeting (see minutes of Annual Parish Meeting) the Chairman had nothing further to report. 8.2 Clerk’s Report Transparency Grant funding of £1225 has been received and decisions on how this money will be spent will be an agenda item for the next meeting. Invoices for the parish grounds maintenance work will be checked with the contractor before payment is made and future grass cutting will continue to be monitored as to what is undertaken and when. 8.3 Risk Assessment The annual play equipment inspection is supported by regular visual inspection of the equipment. The fence around the play area has been repaired by Cllr. Wyett who has also offered to repair the seat in the play area which has been damaged again. The seat is thought to be getting beyond repair and consideration will be given to replacing it. The grounds maintenance contractor will be approached to replace the padlock for the gate to the play area as they have lost their key. Parish Council Risk Management will be an agenda item for the next meeting of the Parish Council.

Accounts were presented and accepted for payment.

Cheques for approval of payment

Cheques for Approval of Payment 09.05.17 Norfolk ALC subs £115.88 E.on Street lighting electric £251.18 A Morgan (Internal Audit) £62.50 BCKLWN emptying of dog waste bins £207.48 Insurance Came & Company £538.16 Clerk’s salary (April/May) £118.44 HMRC PAYE (April, May, June) £44.40 K & M Lighting (x2) £35.04 Bonnetts (padlocks) £11.21 CGM £165.00 Maxey & Co. £7.00 To note: Standing Order of £100 to Maxey Grounds & Co. needs to be amended to £107. £7.00 is outstanding at present.

Finance – April 28th 2017 Community Account Balance £5814.47 Business Savings Account £3451.53

10\. Annual Return The Internal Audit having been satisfactorily completed the accounts for the year ending March 31st 2017 were accepted as presented.

Comment made by the Internal Auditor regarding the need to clarify credit relating to the grounds maintenance contract has been addressed.

The Annual Return was duly completed and signed (copies presented to Councillors).

11\. Correspondence Correspondence relating to Stoke Ferry Youth Club will be circulated to Councillors.

12\. Planning application for consideration 12.1 Variation of condition 1 of planning permission 16/02032/RM to change dwelling type and site layout at Land South of Ashmede, Low Road, Wretton.

As the Parish Council did not support permission for this development no comment was made regarding this amendment.

Comment was made regarding the nonsense wording which accompanied the planning notification.

No Further Reports made

Public Participation The Parish Council was asked to investigate the purchase and siting of another dog waste bin in the Parish to cover Field Lane. This will be an agenda item for the July meeting.
