---
title: "Stoke Ferry Parish Council March Meeting"
date: "2016-05-17"
categories: 
  - "parish-councils"
  - "stoke-ferry"
  - "village-pump"
  - "villages"
---

 

STOKE FERRY PARISH COUNCIL

Minutes of the meeting held on 9th March, 2016

Attendance: Chairman Mrs D Clements Vice Chairman Mrs C Hardy Councillors M Leamon M Precey J Taylor County Councillor M Storey Members of the public 5

1\. Emergency Evacuation

Members and members of the public were advised of the emergency evacuation procedures for the Village Hall.

2\. Apologies

Mrs J M Markwell Parish Clerk J Nicholas Letch S Lintern

3\. To receive Declarations of Interest from Members on any item to be discussed

There were no Declarations of Interest

4\. To agree Minutes of the meeting held on 10th February, 2016

Proposed - Cllr Mrs Hardy Seconded - Cllr Mr Precey

'That the minutes of the meeting held on Wednesday 10th February, 2016 be approved'

All in favour

To agree Minutes of the meeting held on 17th February, 2016

Proposed - Cllr Mrs Taylor Seconded - Cllr Mrs Hardy

'That the minutes of the meeting held on Wednesday 17th February, 2016 be approved'

All in favour

5\. Matters arising

Clerk to contact bank to change address for delivery of bank statements.

6\. To consider Public Rights of Way (Footpaths/Bridleways)

No comments made

Page (009) 16

7\. To discuss letters requesting Parish Council funding

The Village Hall are still awaiting quotes for the roof also a site visit, and have requested that the Parish Council keep the money offered at the last meeting until firm quotes have been received. The Playing Field committee as still waiting for a quote for connecting the electricity.

8\. To discuss an event to celebrate the Queen's 90th Birthday

It was agreed to hold a meeting with the Village Hall Committee, the Playing Field Committee, and The Parish Council to discuss the event. The date for this is to be 24th March 2016 at 7pm in the Village Hall. The Chairman agreed to contact the Village Hall Committee, and Cllr M Leamon is to contact the Playing Field Committee.

A provisional date of the 12th June, 2016 was suggested, but this would be confirmed at the meeting on the 24th March.

It was agreed that 160 Commemorative Medals will be purchased to give to all the children at All Saints Academy, and Little Oaks.

Proposed - Cllr C Hardy Seconded - Cllr M Leamon

All in favour

9\. Website

As Cllr Nicholas Letch was not at the meeting, it was agreed to put this on the agenda for next month

10 Planning application Ref No: 16/00210/F Proposed dwelling and associated garage, Land Adj 2 Lime Kiln Lane Stoke Ferry King's Lynn Norfolk PE33 9UA

Recommend approval

Proposed - Cllr M Leamon Seconded - Cllr Hardy

All in favour

Planning application Ref No: 16/00230/O Proposed Residential Development, Site adjacent Hazel Dene Greatmans Way Stoke Ferry King's Lynn Norfolk PE33 9SZ

Recommend approval

Proposed - Cllr C Hardy Seconded - Cllr M Leamon

All in favour

It was brought to the attention of councillors that plans will no longer be available in hard copies but can be viewed on-line. Training will be available April/May. Councillors asked for notification of planning results. Page (010) 16

11 To approve payments of bills

Proposed - Cllr M Leamon Seconded - Cllr M Precey

‘That the bills be paid as per the attached schedule’

All in favour

12 To receive correspondence

NALC - Service to members update Cafe Clusters 14th March 2016 SLCC - Legal Status Letter received from Mrs Judith Taylor regarding refurbishment of Phone Box, this item to be added to next months Agenda

13 To receive information or suggested items to be considered at the next meeting (Councillors/ Public)

Copies of minutes to be available on the Parish Council Notice Board, The Post Office, Thomas B Bonnett's, The Village Pump and The Lynn News

All village clubs and organisations to be contacted with a view to supplying a report for the Annual Parish Meeting in May.

Dog Fouling Signs requested for the grass area at Border Road/Oak Road.

A caravan has appeared on a field on the village side of the by-pass.

There is a large pot hole also the road has again formed a pronounced 'bump' between the Bridge and Station on Bridge Road, and at Little Lane there is a pot hole.

Footpaths - Mr Philpot, and Cllr Precey to contact Cllr Lintern, to help review and report back on the state of footpaths in the hope that they can be restored to a good standard.

Community Car Scheme - A member of the public had questions regarding the car scheme, but in the absence of Cllr Nicholas Letch it was agreed to ask for a full report for the next meeting.

14 Date and time of next meeting - Wednesday 13th April, 2016 at 7.30pm

Meeting closed at 9.30pm
